Welcome to the fourth video in the behavior planning module. In the last video, we introduced dynamic objects into our finite state machine
behavior planner. In this video, we will develop a larger behavior planner
which is able to manage the decision process for multiple scenarios
simultaneously. We will do this by introducing the notion of a hierarchical
finite state machine. We will also develop a method
to switch between each of the driving scenarios as
they occur. Let's begin. So far in this module, we have developed a finite state machine behavior planner
that can handle a single four-way stop intersection scenario
with dynamic objects. However, in driving, there are many such scenarios which
will be encountered. For example, there are
three-way stop intersections, traffic light controlled
intersections, and straight road scenarios,
just to name a few. While many of these
scenarios share some similarities largely due to the logic required
to handle them, each of the scenarios
can be considered to require fundamentally
different driving behaviors. One method of handling these multiple scenarios is
by adding additional states, transitions and conditions to a single state machine in an ever-expanding network
of behaviors. However, there are several
problems with this approach. The first problem is that
we would need to develop additional logic to differentiate
the current scenario, as well as the rules needed to handle each scenario
individually. This quickly runs into a problem
known as rule explosion, in which the number of
rules required to add additional scenarios
becomes unimaginably large. The second problem with a single state machine is
that due to the number of extra rules and
transitions that need to be evaluated at each step, the computational time required significantly
increases, and lastly, such a system is
complicated to create and maintain as a number of cases which one must worry
about increases quickly. Essentially, as the
complexity increases, we lose all the
advantages of using a finite state machine that were highlighted
back in lesson one. There is however, another
approach we can use. We can represent
each high level scenario as a single state. This would allow us to create much simpler transitions in between the high level
scenario states. In this example, we can see
that the states represent a straight road scenario and the four-way
intersection scenario we worked with previously. With each one of these high
level scenario states, we will store
a low-level state machine with which we can handle
the scenario independently. For example, for
the intersection scenario, the low-level state machine
will be the one constructed over
the last two lessons. This method of representation is known as a hierarchical
state machine, with the super-states
representing each scenario, and the sub-states representing the maneuvers to be
handled in each scenario. The transitions between the high level
scenario state machine would be a rule that defines when a new scenario
has been entered, based on the HD roadmap and
dynamic vehicle information. Let's say we have this simple
hierarchical state machine with two scenarios, one for straight road with
a pedestrian crossing, and another for a stop
sign-based intersection. To move from the straight road to the stop sign intersection, the autonomous vehicle has to be close to an encounter
with this intersection. This is done with
a distance check to the next intersection
along the mission plan. All the movements
which we have talked about here is at
the super-state level. The next question we
have to answer is, how do we switch
between scenarios when processing
the sub-state maneuvers? One method is to
introduce transitions to key maneuver sub-states out of the current scenario
super-state. Let us continue to use the intersection
scenario as an example. First, let's
establish which state will be the key exit state
out of the scenario. The only way we're able to exit an intersection is while in the track speed or follow leader states after having
passed the intersection. So let's put the exit
transitions there. The condition on
the transitions would be to confirm that this scenario
has indeed been completed. In this example, we can use the distance to the next
stop sign intersection. If this is larger than
a given threshold, we can exit the
intersection scenario. With this method of transition, we were able to also maintain maneuvers between
scenario switches. In this case, track speed
in the intersection super-state will connect to the track speed of
the next scenario that we enter. Adding an additional
multi-lane scenario to this hierarchical state
machine is done by creating a new super-state
scenario node, with a sub-state state machine capable of handling
that scenario. This type of
finite state machine has some inherent strengths
and weaknesses. The strengths of
this approach are due to it's subdivided nature. By creating individual
state machines within each super-state, this method is able to limit the computational time
required at any one time step by
restructuring our sub-space. This subdivided nature also
makes both testing and programming of
a hierarchical state machine significantly easier. However, the hierarchical
state machine is not without its problems, while limiting the number
of rules required, this approach is still unable to handle rule explosion completely. One reason for the large number
of rules is that all scenarios have fully
separated state machines, and thus many of the rules are duplicates of one another in order to handle similar behaviors
in different scenarios. Ultimately, the
hierarchical approach allows the system
designer to handle a greater amount
of complexity than a flat single layered
finite state machine. The idea can be extended
to multiple layers as long as key states can be
defined at each level. In reality, the perspective enforced by
finite state machines, that a single behavior is
active at any given time, and that all transitions to other behaviors can be
explicitly defined, has a limit on how large a set of scenarios it can handle. Nonetheless, it
provides a useful tool for typical behavior planning
in a self-driving car. Let's summarize what we've
discussed in this video. We first introduced the hierarchical
finite state machine, which is able to handle multiple scenarios
simultaneously. We also discussed how
to transition between the different driving scenarios at the super and
sub-state levels, and we discussed
the capabilities and limits of behavior planning with hierarchical finite
state machines. Join us in our next video
where we will discuss a range of advanced
research approaches that are able to solve some of
the issues we've faced so far with behavior planning.
See you there.