In the last video, we introduced the concept
of a behavior planner, and described the basics of the finite state machine to
implement behavior planning. In this video, we will
see how to build out our system to handle a more complete
intersection scenario. We will start by defining the specifics of the scenario
that will be handled. We will then look at how we can discretize the
intersection map into sections to establish clear
transitions between states. Then we will define the states
and transitions which are required to complete the given scenario
safely and efficiently. To finish this video, we will highlight the
testing procedure required to confirm the correctness and accuracy of our behavior planning
system. Let's begin. The scenario which we
will be attempting to handle is a four-way
intersection, with two lanes and stop
signs for every direction. A diagram of such an
intersection can be seen here, where the red lines represent the stop lines which the car
is required to stop behind. By the end of the video, this vehicle should be
able to travel left, right, or straight through
this intersection. We'll leave dynamic objects
out of the scenario for now, and we'll address them
in the next video. We've now defined a very restricted operational
design domain for our behavior
planner to handle. It's now time to implement
the behavior planner. Let's start by looking
at how to discretize an intersection so
that we can more simply make decisions
in the environment. The area of
the intersection where a vehicle should
begin safely braking is defined as
the approaching zone of the intersection,
highlighted in red. The zone of the
intersection in which the vehicle must
stop and wait until the appropriate time
to proceed will be known as the at zone,
highlighted in green. Finally, the zone in which
the vehicle is crossing the actual intersection is defined as on the intersection, and is highlighted in orange. The size of each
of the above zones are dynamically changed based on two primary factors:
the ego vehicle speed, at higher speed, we will require more distance to safely
and comfortably stop, and the size of the intersection. The bigger the intersection, the bigger each zone has to be. To handle this scenario, we will require three
high-level driving maneuvers. Track speed,
this maneuver state is only bounded by the current
speed limit of the road. Traditionally, this
is the maneuver given before entering any region
of the intersection, or after entering the on
the intersection zone safely. The state entry action
sets the speed limit. Decelerate to stop,
this maneuver state forces the future trajectory
of the object to stop before reaching
the stop point. The entry action defines
the stop point location. Stop, this maneuver tells the vehicle to stay stopped
in its current location. The entry action is to
start a timer to wait for a fixed amount of time before proceeding through
the intersection. We will now look at
the different situations the ego vehicle will
encounter in this scenario, and figure out the finite
state machine elements needed to encode the correct
behavior planning solution. Let's start by looking
at the ego vehicle before it enters
the intersection region, where it has
a single constraint to follow the speed limit
of the road. This constraint is set based on the entry action of
the track speed state. When the ego vehicle enters the approaching zone,
the red zone, it must begin decelerating
to the stop sign, thus will transition to
the decelerate to stop state. The transition condition on
moving from track speed to decelerate to stop is therefore entry into
the approaching zone. Then, once decelerating, the next maneuver which
the autonomous vehicle must execute is to come to a full stop before the stop line, or in the at zone of
the intersection. To make sure this happens, the vehicle stays in the decelerate to stop
state until it has both a zero velocity and
a position within the at zone. The entry action in
the decelerate to stop state is the establishment
of a safe stop location. Due to the simplicity
of this scenario, this is a single stop location, the stop line as given to the planner by
the high-definition roadmap. This, however, we will
see in the next lesson, will become harder to do once other dynamic objects interact
with the ego vehicle. Once fully stopped, the car
enters the stop state. As the entry action, a timer is started to make sure that the vehicle stays
in the stopped state for three seconds before proceeding in accordance
with typical driving rules. Once the timer is complete, the planner automatically
transitions to the track speed state and follows the route
provided to it by the mission planner
through the intersection, be at left, right,
or straight through. This is all the required
computation to handle the simple four-way intersection with the finite state machine. Throughout this process, it
is vitally important that we understand how we the human
expert analyze the scenario, and what the specific
capabilities of the resulting
behavior planner are. These need to be captured in the operational design
domain definition, and we need to ensure
that we create a complete state machine able to handle every possible
case that can arise for the given scenarios. One particular issue that has a big impact on
the performance of our state machine is the issue
of noise in the inputs. The state transition conditions
defined above are exact, and rely on the vehicle
reaching the stop point and achieving
a zero velocity exactly. Even with no other dynamic
objects to detect, the localization estimates
of the vehicle state may contain noise and not satisfy
these conditions exactly. To handle this type
of input noise, we can introduce
noise threshold hyperparameters. This is a small
threshold value allowing speeds close to zero to
be accepted as stopped. We will continue to see these hyperparameters more
and more in the next lesson, when handling
more complex scenarios with dynamic objects. Now that we've finished creating the finite
state machine, how do we test if it works? Well, traditionally, there
are four stages of testing required to confirm functionality of a behavior planning system, which follow from
our discussion of safety assessment for
the full vehicle in course 1. First, we perform
code-based tests, which are done to confirm that the logic of the code is correct. For example, code-based tests
can tell the programmer if the speed limits set
in the roadmap will be the speed limit produced by
the finite state machine. However, these checks
are incapable of confirming if the state
transitions are correct, or if the states are
capable of handling all of the situations
in a given scenario. For this, we have to
see if the program code correctly handles
all situations as intended. Next, we move to
simulation testing, which is performed in a simulated
environment like Carla, in which the state
machine performs the scenarios which it
was designed to handle. This type of testing
is able to confirm if the state machine transitions and state coverage are correct. The number of tests performed in the simulation should
be representative of all possible situations which
can be seen when driving the scenario to catch any edge cases which
programmers might have missed. Many times selecting
a representative set of tests is not trivial, especially as the complexity
of the scenarios increases. We then move into
closed track testing, once confident that
the state machine performs as intended
in simulation. This type of testing tests specific scenarios which are hard to confirm exactly in simulation, such as parameter
tuning and noise, and errors in
the perception output in a real environment. Finally, we proceed to
on-road validation testing. Whereas all previous tests were performed in a highly
controlled environment, road tests can be
highly unpredictable, and often break the system in a manner otherwise not
imagined by engineers. New variations on
scenarios can then be incorporated into earlier stages
of the testing process. Let's review what we've
learned in this video. We first defined the scenario and the operational design
domain to be handled, a single intersection scenario with a stop sign
in all directions. We then saw how the intersection can be discretized so that each zone can be used when making the transitions
of the state diagram. We then built up the states in transitions at the system
to correctly define the required behaviors
throughout the intersection. Finally, we reviewed
four stages of testing that can be used to confirm proper
behaviors in the scenario. In the next video, we will
show you how to handle the same intersection scenario while interacting with
other dynamic objects. As we will see, this
makes the state machines significantly more complex and interesting. We'll see you then.