Welcome to the fifth week of
the motion planning course. In this module, we
will be discussing a very important part of our motion planning
architecture, behavior planning. We will start this module off by introducing the concept
of behavior planning, and how to construct
the behavior plan or using a state machine. Then, throughout
the rest of the module, we will go through the process of creating a state machine-based
behavior planner, able to handle
multiple scenarios. Finally, we will finish off
this module by looking at alternative approaches to the
behavior planning problem, to understand their relative
strengths and weaknesses. In this lesson, we will, define the requirements for
a behavior planning system, explore the typical
inputs and outputs to a behavior planning
module, and finally, introduce the concept of
finite state machines, and how they can be used to create a behavior
planning system. Let's begin. A behavior
planning system, plans the set of high level
driving actions, or maneuvers to safely achieve the driving mission under
various driving situations. The set of maneuvers which are planned should take into account, the rules of the road, and the interactions with all static and dynamic objects
in the environment. The set of high level decisions
made by the planner must ensure vehicle safety and efficient motion through
the environment. We discussed many
of these concepts already in course one
of this specialization, and it is the behavior
planner that needs to make the right decisions to keep us moving safely towards our goal. As an example of the role
of the behavior planner, let's suppose
the autonomous vehicle arrives at a busy intersection. The behavior planner must
plan when and where to stop, how long to stay stopped for, and when to proceed
through the intersection. The behavior planner has
to perform this type of decision-making in a
computationally efficient manner, so that it can react quickly to changes in the environment, and be deployed on
an autonomous vehicle hardware. The behavior planners
should also be able to deal with inputs that
are both inaccurate, corrupted by measurement
noise, and incorrect, affected by perception
errors such as false positive detections and
false negative detections. Now that we have the definition for the role of the
behavior planner, let's build a list of basic behaviors that we'll work with for the rest
of this module. We've described most of these in an earlier video
in this course, and we'll use this list as a representation of the set of likely maneuvers or driving behaviors encountered
throughout regular driving that an autonomous vehicle
may need to execute. In all, we'll consider
five behaviors. The first is track speed. This behavior amounts to unconstrained driving
on open road, meaning that
the only restriction on forward progress is that the speed limit
should be respected. Next, is follow lead vehicle. The speed of the vehicle in front of the ego
vehicle should be matched and a safe following distance
should be maintained. The third is decelerate to stop. A stop point exists in the ego vehicle's lane
within the planning horizon, and the vehicle
should decelerate to a standstill at that stop point. Every regulatory element that requires a complete stop
triggers this behavior. Next, we have stay stopped. The vehicle should
continue to stay stationary for
a fixed amount of time. As an example, when the vehicle
stops at a stop sign, it should stay stopped for
at least three seconds. Finally, we have
the merge behavior. The vehicle should
either merge into the left or right lane
at this time. This basic list of
maneuvers will serve us well in developing the
principles of behavior planning. However, many more behaviors should be considered in practice, and the overall complexity of the behavior planner
will grow as a result. The primary output of
the behavior planner is a driving maneuver to be performed in
the current environment. Along with the driving maneuver, the behavior planner also
outputs a set of constraints, which constrain the local
planning problem. The constraints which
we will use and populate throughout
this module include, the default path from the current location of the vehicle to
the goal destination, for many behaviors, this is the center line of
the ego vehicle's current lane. The speed limit along
the default path. The lane boundaries of
the current lane that should be maintained under
nominal driving conditions. Any future stop locations which the vehicle
needs to arrive at, and this constraint is only populated if the relevant
maneuver is selected. Finally, the set of
dynamic objects of high interest which the local
planner should attend to. These dynamic objects
may be important due to proximity or
estimated future path. In order for the
behavior planner to be able to produce
the required output, it needs a large amount
of information from many other software systems
in our autonomy stack. First, the behavior
planner relies on full knowledge of the road
network near the vehicle. This knowledge comes from
the high definition road map. Next, the behavior
planner must know which roadways to follow
to get to a goal location. This comes in the form of a mission path over
the road network graph. Further, the location
of the vehicle is also vital to be
able to correctly position HD roadmap elements in the local environment
around the vehicle. Accurate localization
information is also needed from the localization
system as a result. Finally, the behavior planner requires all relevant
perception information, in order to fully understand the actions that
need to be taken, to safely activate the mission. This information includes, all observed dynamic objects
in the environment, such as cars,
pedestrians, or bicycles. For each dynamic object,
its current state, predicted paths,
collision points, and time to collision,
are all required. It also includes, all observed static objects in
their respective states, such as parked vehicles,
construction cones, and traffic lights, with
an indication of their state. Finally, it includes
a local occupancy grid map defining the safe areas
to execute maneuvers. With all the necessary
information available to it, the behavior planner must select the appropriate behavior, and define the necessary
accompanying constraints to keep the vehicle safe
and moving efficiently. To do so, we will
construct a set of rules either explicitly
or implicitly that consider all of
the rules of the road and all of the interactions
with other dynamic objects. One approach traditionally used to represent the set of rules required to solve
behavior selection is a finite state machine. Throughout this module,
we will go through a step-by-step process
of constructing a finite state machine-based
behavior planner. We'll discuss some of the
limitations of this approach. To better understand the finite
state machine approach, let's walk through
a simple example of a finite-state machine
for a single scenario, handling a stop sign
intersection with no traffic. The first set of components
of a finite state machine, is the set of states. For behavior planning system, the states will represent each of the possible
driving maneuvers, which can be encountered. In our example, we will only need two possible maneuvers or states, track speed and
decelerate to stop. The maneuver decision defined by the behavior planner is set by the state of the finite
state machine. Each state has associated
with it an entry action, which is the action that is to be taken when a state
is first entered. For our behavior planner, these entry actions
involve setting the necessary constraint outputs to accompany the
behavior decision. For instance, as soon as we enter the decelerate to stop state, we must also define the
stopping point along the path. Similarly, the entry condition
for the track speed state, sets the speed limit to track. The second set of components
of the finite state machine, are the transitions, which define the movement from
one state to another. In our two-state example, we can transition from track
speed to decelerate to stop, and from decelerate to
stop back to track speed. Note that there can
also be transitions which return us to
the current state, triggering the entry action
to repeat for that state. Each transition is
accompanied with a set of transition conditions
that need to be met before changing
to the next state. These transition conditions
are monitored while in a state to determine when
a transition should occur. For our simple example, the transition
conditions going from track speed to decelerate to stop involved checking
if a stop point is within a threshold distance
in our current lane. Similarly, if we have reached zero velocity
at the stop point, we can transition from decelerate to stop back to track speed. These two-state
example highlights the most important aspects of the finite state machine-based
behavior planner. As the number of scenarios
and behaviors increases, the finite state
machine that is needed becomes significantly
more complex, with many more states and
conditions for transition. Finite state machines can be a very simple and effective tool
for behavior planning. We can think of them as a direct implementation of the definition of
behavior planning, which requires us to define
maneuvers or states, and local planning constraints or entry actions that satisfy
the rules of the road and check safe interaction with other dynamic and
static objects in the environment or
transition conditions. By keeping track of the current maneuver and state of the driving environment, only relevant transitions out of the current state need
to be considered, greatly reducing the number of conditions to check
at each iteration. As a result of
the decomposition of behavior planning into a set of states with transitions
between them, the individual rules required
remain relatively simple. This leads to straightforward
implementations with clear divisions
between separate behaviors. However, as the number
of states increases, the complexity of defining all possible transitions and
their conditions explodes. There is also
no explicit way to handle uncertainty and errors
in the input data. These challenges mean that the finite-state machine approach tends to run into difficulties, as we approach full level
five autonomy. But it is an excellent
starting point for systems with restricted
operational design domains, permitting a manageable
number of states. We'll look into these limitations and alternative approaches to behavior planning in
the final video in this module. This concludes our introduction
to behavior planning. In this video, we formulated
a clear definition of the behavior planning problem and its role within the overall
motion planning system. We discussed the standard inputs and outputs of the
behavior planning module. We introduced the finite
state machine and its components, and applied it to a two-state
behavior planning problem. From here, we'll start to add more capabilities to our finite-state machine
behavior planner. In the next lesson,
we will learn how to handle all the rules
associated with an intersection scenario without any dynamic objects.
Well, see you there.