[MUSIC] In the previous videos, we discussed
sensors, computing hardware, and hardware configurations for
autonomous vehicles. In this video we will learn
about a representative modular software architecture for
self driving cars. The architecture will use the information
provided by the hardware components and allow us to achieve our
goal of autonomous driving. Let's go over a detailed decomposition
of each module of the software stack. This will allow us to discuss each
segment more carefully by taking a look at the inputs which they receive, the computations they need to make,
and the outputs that they provide. We will discuss the following
five software modules, environment perception,
environment mapping, motion planning, vehicle control, and
finally the system supervisor. While this overview of the software stack
will not provide implementation detail, it should give you a good understanding of
all of the software components required to make a self driving car function. The entire specialization is
organized around this structure so we'll return to it regularly. Also note this is not the only software
architecture used in autonomous driving, but is a good representation
of the necessary functions for full vehicle autonomy. Let's take a look at the high
level software architecture for a self driving car's software stack. As discussed in a previous video, the car observes the environment
around it, using a variety of sensors. The raw sensor measurements are passed
into two sets of modules dedicated to understanding
the environment around the car. The environment perception modules
have two key responsibilities, first, identifying the current location of
the autonomous vehicle in space, and second, classifying and locating important elements of
the environment for the driving task. Examples of these elements include other
cars, bikes, pedestrians, the road, road markings, and road signs, anything
that directly affects the act of driving. The environment mapping module creates
a set of maps which locate objects in the environment around the autonomous
vehicle for a range of different uses, from collision avoidance to egomotion
tracking and motion planning. The third module is known
as motion planning. The motion planning module makes all the
decisions about what actions to take and where to drive based on all of the
information provided by the perception and mapping modules. The motion planning module's main
output is a safe, efficient and comfortable planned path that moves
the vehicle towards its goal. The planned path is then executed by
the fourth module, the controller. The controller module takes the path and
decides on the best steering angle, throttle position,
brake pedal position, and gear settings to precisely
follow the planned path. The fifth and
final module is the system supervisor. The system supervisor monitors all
parts of the software stack, as well as the hardware output, to make sure that
all systems are working as intended. The system supervisor
is also responsible for informing the safety driver of
any problems found in the system. Now that we have a general idea of
the function of the main modules, let's take a closer look at
each module individually. First, let's start with
environment perception. As discussed previously, there are two
important parts of the perception stack, localizing the ego-vehicle in space,
as well as classifying and locating the important
elements of the environment. The localization module takes in
multiple streams of information, such as the current GPS location,
IMU measurements and wheel odometry. It then combines them to output
an accurate vehicle location. For greater accuracy, some localization modules also
incorporate LIDAR and camera data. This localization problem will
be discussed in much greater detail in the next course of this
specialization on state estimation. Typically, the problem
of classification and localization of the environmental
elements is divided into two segments, first, detecting dynamic objects
in the environment, and second, detecting the static
objects in the environment. The dynamic object detection module
uses a set of camera inputs as well as LIDAR point clouds to create 3D bounding
boxes around dynamic objects in the scene. The 3D bounding boxes encode the class or
type of object as well as the exact position,
orientation and size of the object. Once detected, the dynamic objects are
tracked over time by a tracking module. The tracker module provides not only the
current position of the dynamic objects but also the history of its
path through the environment. The history of the path is used
along with the roadmaps In order to predict the future path
of all dynamic objects. This is usually handled
by a prediction module, which combines all information
regarding the dynamic object and the current environment to predict
the path of all dynamic objects. The static object detection module
also relies on a combination of camera input and LIDAR data to identify
significant static objects in the scene. Such important data include the current
lane in which the self-driving vehicle is found, and the location of regulatory
elements such as signs and traffic lights. The problem of environment perception
will be the focus of course three in this specialization on visual perception. Now that we have a better idea of
how the perception stack works, let's move on to
the environment mapping modules. Environment maps create several
different types of representation of the current environment
around the autonomous car. There are three types of maps that we
discuss briefly, the occupancy grid map, the localization map and
the detailed road map. The occupancy grid is a map of all
static objects in the environment surrounding the vehicle. LIDAR is predominantly used to
construct the occupancy grid map. A set of filters are first applied to
the LIDAR data to make it usable by the occupancy grid. For example, the drivable surface points
and dynamic object points are removed. The occupancy grid map represents
the environment as a set of grid cells and associates a probability
that each cell is occupied. This allows us to handle uncertainty
in the measurement data and improve the map over time. The localization map, which is
constructed from LIDAR, or camera data, is used by the localization module in
order to improve eco state estimation. Sensor data is compared to this
map while driving to determine the motion of the car relative
to the localization map. This motion is then combined
with other proprioceptor sensor information to accurately
localize the eco vehicle. The detailed road map provides a map of
road segments which represent the driving environment that the autonomous
vehicle is currently driving through. It captures signs and lane markings
in a manner that can be used for motion planning. This map is traditionally a combination
of prerecorded data as well as incoming information from the current
static environment gathered by the perception stack. The environment mapping and
perception modules interact significantly to improve
the performance of both modules. For example, the perception module
provides the static environment information needed to update the detailed
road map, which is then used by the prediction module to create more
accurate dynamic object predictions. Next, we'll take a closer look at how the
output from both the environment maps and the perception modules are combined and used by the motion planning module to
create a path through the environment. Motion planning for self-driving
cars is a challenging task, and it's hard to solve in
a single integrated process. Instead, most self-driving cars today
use a decomposition that divides the problem into several layers
of abstraction as follows. At the top level, the mission planner
handles long term planning and defines the mission over the entire
horizon of the driving task, from the current location, through
the road network to its final destination. To find the complete mission,
the mission planner determines the optimal sequence of road segments that connect
your origin and destination, and then passes this to the next layer. The behavior planner is
the next level of abstraction, solving short term planning problems. The behaviour planner is responsible for
establishing a set of safe actions or maneuvers to be executed while
travelling along the mission path. An example of the behaviour planner
decisions would be whether the vehicle should merge into an adjacent
lane given the desired speed and the predicted behaviors
of nearby vehicles. Along with the maneuver of decisions, the behavior planner also provides a set
of constrains to execute with each action, such as how long to remain in
the current lane before switching. Finally, the local planner performs
immediate or reactive planning, and is responsible for defining a specific
path and velocity profile to drive. The local plan must be smooth,
safe, and efficient given all the current constraints imposed
by the environment and maneuver. In order to create such a plan,
the local planner combines information provided by
the behavior planner, occupancy grid, the vehicle operating limits, and
other dynamic objects in the environment. The output of the local planner is
a planned trajectory which is a combined desired path and velocity profile for
a short period of time into the future. The fourth course of this specialization
is dedicated to motion planning. Next, let's see how a typical vehicle
controller takes the given trajectory and turns it into a set of precise actuation
commands for the vehicle to apply. A typical controller separates the control
problem into a longitudinal control and a lateral control. The lateral controller outputs
the steering angle required to maintain the planned trajectory, whereas
the longitudinal controller regulates the throttle, gears and braking system
to achieve the correct velocity. Both controllers calculate
current errors and tracking performance of the local plan,
and adjust the current actuation commands
to minimize the errors going forward. We'll dig into vehicle
control later in this course. Finally, let's take a closer look at
the system supervisor and its functions. The system supervisor is the module that
continuously monitors all aspects of the autonomous car and gives the appropriate warning in
the event of a subsystem failure. There are two parts, the hardware
supervisor, and the software supervisor. The hardware supervisor continuously
monitors all hardware components to check for any faults, such as a broken
sensor, a missing measurement, or degraded information. Another responsibility of the hardware
supervisor is to continuously analyze the hardware outputs for
any outputs which do not match the domain which the self-driving car was
programmed to perform under. For example, if one of the camera
sensors is blocked by a paper bag or if snow is falling and
corrupting the LIDAR point cloud data. The software supervisor has the
responsibility of validating this software stack to make sure that all
elements are running as intended at the right frequencies and
providing complete outputs. The software supervisor
also is responsible for analyzing inconsistencies between
the outputs of all modules. In this video, we looked at the basic
software architecture of a typical self-driving software system. In fact, we looked at the decomposition
of five major modules and their responsibilities. These included: environment perception,
environment mapping, motion planning, vehicle controller and,
finally, the system supervisor. In the next video, we'll take
a closer look at environment mapping. We'll look at the three maps used
throughout the software architecture, the occupancy grid, the localization map,
and the detailed road map. See you in the next video. [MUSIC]