How do I see the world of
autonomous vehicles evolving? Well, it's not I think an industry
where suddenly you nailed it. It's like an analog computers. We haven't finished computers. No one says when will
we have computers? It's not done. It's something that gets better over time just like
computing and software. This is a big endeavor and it starts now, and it's
never going to stop. So, every year they're
going to be getting better, they're going to get smarter. I think it's an interesting play
because this time it's software, not the arrangement of
steel atoms that makes the play. That makes the difference. There's
something extraordinary about the way that software is so non-linear, and
the impact they can have. It doesn't cost much to copy
software but it does cost a final amount to make another imprint of a car
that costs something. So, something quite extraordinary
there that's coming through. So, it's a great space to
be working in because you can write software that
doesn't require a steel plant, and you can have
an impact on transport. I think that's absolutely
remarkable haven't really seen that before. You had to own an oil and gas field, or a car factory, and all the rest of it to
make an impact in transport before and now it's because
you can write text files, and that's something
quite extraordinary. The industry is very new but
the future is very bright. As for how will Zoox compete with the automotive OEMs that are already out
there working on this. I think that Zoox is
unique in its approach, and I think that solving the self-driving vehicle challenge isn't just an automotive challenge. By removing the human, you have to build in
so much extra redundancy and you have to have so much extra software
to make that work that you have to both look at the automotive engineering as
well as looking at Aerospace, and computer science, and
software engineering. So, Zoox is really set up for that
because it was born to do that. It was born to build
the vehicle from the ground up, and it had that mission
the entire time. It's very focused on that mission, and so it's less encumbered by
what some of the larger OEMs would have especially since
they've starting mostly with just
automotive engineering. I see the self-driving industry
really taking off because there's this convergence of two things,
Autonomy and ride-sharing. So right now cars are utilized
maybe five percent of the time so that means that 95 percent of the time they're
sitting in your driveway, they're sitting in
a parking lot at work. The beauty of self-driving
is that we're able to take these
autonomous vehicles, and have them out on the road
for the majority of the day, and to be able to move
more riders with less vehicles. I could see the industry going two ways in terms of
personal ownership, or transportation as a service. I see arguments for both and perhaps the reality is in the future
we'll see a combination of both. I could see people always
wanting to own their own vehicle for luxury or privacy reasons, and also accessible transportation would benefit greatly from
autonomous technology. So, it's very likely that
we'll see both on the horizon. A question that often
comes up around AVs is when will I be able to buy one? It's a very reasonable question. I think we will first experience
them by not buying one, but by getting a ride in one in
certain areas in certain cities. So, that's the Geofencing argument. The vehicles will first appear working in an area of
a city that they're well rehearsed and
well-practiced and you know a lot about how that city changes, and it's lighting conditions, and when it gets busy, and where the really
hard turnings are, and they'll be like fancy buses, our transport service in a city. But the question that actually
people want me to answer is, when will I be able
to walk into vocal of a car sales room and say I'll have the one with
no steering wheel, and no windows? Which is basically what
our full L5 system would be like. No human is needed ever and the
vehicle can go wherever, whenever, whatever the weather, anywhere, and you never have to worry
about not getting there. So, it has the same functionality
that your car does now, and it's a consumer piece of tech. That's a long way off. Because the complexity
of driving many of the difficult situations
have got nothing to do with your driving test at all. You solve this random problem. That's because you're a human, you go, I know what to do there. It might be the only time ever
driving that problem ever arises, and you solve it in that way. You actually reverse
around it and go, it's a plastic bag and
it's going to drive over that coupled boxes. I think it really is
just car boredom, or there's some cows on
the road and I'm going to wait for them to pass because
they're going to pass it. Any number of things. Those are really hard problems or dealing with the twos
and blues coming up behind, and pulling off up onto
the sidewalk because you know that the person has also clocked that there's
a siren coming behind. So, they're not going to
be alarmed that you're driving at them on the sidewalk, and there's some social contract
between the two of you. I could go on with
all the interesting corner cases that we as humans solve, but to have a vehicle that it's a five sigma takes
you from wherever you are, to wherever you want to go, anytime a day,
any weather, any country, anywhere, and you have
the same confidence you do in the vehicle you buy
now, then you can do that. That's a long way away,
and that's great. That's like saying when do we
have the best computers ever? Well, it just gets better every day. You can't answer that question. But that doesn't mean that we don't transform transport before that. Yeah. So, cars didn't
go everywhere to start with, but they've
got better and better.