[MUSIC] Welcome back. In the last video, we saw how to build
a feedback controller for the longitudinal speed tracking problem that used PID
control to generate acceleration commands together, with a low level controller
to define throttle and brake inputs. In this final video of the module, we will modify our control architecture
to incorporate feedforward commands, which will improve tracking performance,
particularly in dynamic maneuvers. Specifically, we will see how to
integrate both feedforward and feedback control into a combined
control architecture. And we will apply this architecture
to longitudinal vehicle control. Let's get started. First of all, let's compare the feedback
versus feedforward block diagrams. The feedback block diagram shows
the typical closed loop structure, where the current output is
compared to a reference signal. And the error between the two is
fed into the feedback controller, which generates the input to the plants. The feedforward block diagram
shows an open loop structure, where the reference signal is directly
fed into the feedforward controller, which again,
generates the inputs to the plant. Feedforward controllers create their plant
inputs by modeling the plant process, as we have done in module
three of these course, and applying the appropriate inputs directly. In many applications, feedforward and feedback loops are combined to
improve controller performance. This block diagram shows
how a typical feedback, feedforward control structure works. You can think of feedforward control as
providing the necessary inputs expected to keep the plant tracking its reference
signal, and the feedback controller correcting for errors that result
from either disturbances or inaccuracies in the plant model
used by the feedforward controller. The input to the plant is simply
the addition of the feedforward and the feedback inputs. To summarize this concept, the main
reason that both feedback and feedforward controllers are used to control a system
are feedforward controllers provide a predictive response as they produce
a reference output to achieve a particular tracking response, particularly when
the required inputs are non-zero. Feedback controllers provide
a reactive response, which eliminates control errors due
to the disturbances as they occur. The combination of feedback and feedforward control is widely used because
of this complementary relationship. Because autonomous vehicles require
non-zero steering commands to maintain a constant radius turn and a constant
throttle or brake command to maintain constant speed or deceleration rates,
feedforward commands are extremely beneficial in improving
tracking performance in automated driving. Now let's take a look at the combined
feedback and feedforward controllers to generate vehicle actuation for
longitudinal speed control. The reference speed or drive cycle is
defined by a higher level planner. And it is desirable that the vehicle
follows the reference velocity precisely. The reference velocity is the input
to the feedforward block, and the velocity error is the input to
the feedback or PID control block. Both controllers produce two vehicle
actuation signals, the throttle and the brake commands. Note that there is no low-level controller
included in this block diagram, as we had in the pure PID feedback
control from the previous video. The role of the low-level controller
achieving the desired acceleration through the use of a mapping from
accelerations to engine commands is now going to be handled
by the feedforward block. The feedforward block gets only
the reference signal as input, and its primary objective is to accurately
set the inputs of the plan. To do this we can convert the entire
longitudinal dynamics model into a fixed lookup table or reference
map, that maps the reference velocity to the corresponding actuators signals
assuming the vehicle is at steady state. This feedforward approach works
well at steady state, but ignores the internal dynamics
of the vehicle powertrain. And must also rely on the current
vehicle state estimate to resolve some of the forces and
dynamic models used. Let's look at the steps needed
to develop the actuator commands from a feedforward lookup table. In our example, we are interested in following
the reference velocity at each time step. Based on the kinematic relationship
between the vehicle's speed and the wheel angular speed, we can calculate
the wheel angular speed needed. The wheel angular speed is related
to the engine angular speed, or engine RPM, through the gear
ratios from the transmission, differential and final drive. So we can now compute the engine RPM corresponding to the required
wheel angular speed all through the kinematic relationships
defined in the modeling module. Then assuming steady state operation,
the dynamics of the powertrain says that the engine torque must be equal to the
total load torque acting on the vehicle. The source of the load torque
is aerodynamic resistance, rolling resistance and
vehicle gravitational resistance. We can compute the combined load torque
using the current state of the vehicle, including its current speed,
and the road slope. We now have a required engine torque and can combine that with the current
engine operating speed in RPM to define the throttle position needed
to generate the required torque. Once again, the engine map is defined for discrete steady state values
of engine torque and RPM. And is interpolated as needed, based
on the current vehicle operating point. Let's have a look at
the comparison between PID control method described
in the previous video and the combined feedforward, feedback
method we've discussed in this video. We've used the same simulation
parameters as in the previous video, including the engine map and
dynamic model elements. The key difference between
the two responses is visible as the reference speed changes. Because the PID controller needs errors
to exist before it can correct them, its response lags
the feedforward approach, which immediately applies
the relevant input reference values. The feedforward tracking is still not
perfect, however, as the vehicle response is ultimately governed by its inertia, and
the feedforward approach we've presented relies on steady state
modeling of the car. As the feedforward model
becomes more precise, the feedback components can focus
purely on disturbance rejection, and speed profile tracking can be
done with consistent precision. In this video, we've covered the concept
of feedforward controllers and the integrated feedback in feedforward
controller to enhance the performance of reference tracking. We also applied the feedback and
feedforward loops for autonomous vehicle speed control. Congratulations, you've
now reached the end of this module on longitudinal control for
self driving cars. You've reviewed the concepts of classical
control and defined the PID controller. You've built a PID controller for
longitudinal control of a car and you've applied feedforwad control to
improve reference speed tracking. In the next module, we'll dive into
lateral vehicle control design to guide our vehicle along a reference path. See you there. [MUSIC]