The challenges that I've observed
in the industry so far is it's quite difficult driving
in San Francisco. There's lots of crowds, there's lots of heavy fog, rain for example, and lots
of rolling hills as well. So, at Zoox, currently we're
able to tackle most of these difficult situations
in San Francisco, and we're able to drive on very busy intersections and
take unprotected left turns which are probably one of the most challenging situations that an autonomous vehicle will
encounter on a day-to-day basis. Zoox started with two co-founders, Tim Kentley-Klay and Jesse Levinson. They decided that they
wanted to think of the autonomous problem or challenge in a different way
than everyone else was doing. Everyone else wants to
put sensors on a car, and they wanted to build
the car from the ground up. Our vehicle is bidirectional, that means they won't have to do
U-turns or a three-point turns. Our vehicles won't
have steering wheel, you'll have social seeding, that means that riders will
sit facing each other. In addition, one of the cool things that we can do
is we have all wheels steering. So, all four of the wheels can steer, and what that means in dense urban environments like
San Francisco is that if we have a rider on
the side of the road and a very narrow spot between cars, we can get in there. Whereas more conventional cars might not be able to
in that situation. Because the industry is so new, we at so many different challenges, we have to find
so many different ways of solving problems that we've
never had to solve before. So, it's great and challenging
in trying to figure out those innovative solutions to this such a hard
problem that we have. Zoox has done a really great job
so far in solving that challenge, and I'm glad I'm part of that. Zoox is well position
to compete against the large OEMs that are
currently in the field, because Zoox was born to solve
the problem of autonomous mobility. We're designing a vehicle from
the ground up that will tackle the challenges of delivering a
autonomous ride-sharing experience. The large OEMs have a lot
of existing infrastructure, they're encumbered by
the current model of car ownership. Whereas we as
a small and agile start-up are able to really execute
on our core vision.