Welcome to the sixth module of our Motion Planning course. In this module, we'll
introduce you to some of the concepts
required for you to take a kinematic bicycle model and build a reactive
motion planner from it. A reactive motion
planner is one that takes in local information from the robot's surroundings in order to generate a trajectory that is collision-free and makes progress towards
some goal location. We'll stick to static
environments in this module as a first step on our way to planning behaviors and paths for self-driving cars. We'll also introduce
the concepts of path prediction and collision
checking as we go along. In this video,
we'll be discussing how to generate trajectories in a discrete setting for a sequence of control inputs
to our robot model. By the end of this video, you should understand
the difference between a kinematic and dynamic motion
model and you should have a firm grasp of the bicycle model that we
introduced in course one. In addition, you should be able to generate trajectories from control inputs for our bicycle
model. Let's get started. First, we want to do a brief review of what
a kinematic model is. A kinematic model gives the
equations of motion for our robot while disregarding the impacts of mass and
inertia on its motion. We can contrast this with a dynamic model
which instead takes mass and inertia into consideration at the cost
of being more complex. Kinematic models focus on linear and angular velocities
and occasionally, their derivatives as inputs, whereas dynamic models focus on forces and torques as inputs. To illustrate this, we have
a kinematic particle model contrasted with
the dynamic particle model with friction shown here. For path planning and
trajectory optimization, we often focus on
kinematic models to make the motion planning problem
more computationally tractable and leave
the issues raised by the simplification of
the dynamics to the controller. To give a concrete example, here we have the equations of
motion for a bicycle model of our robot which you should
recall from course one. What do these equations mean? Essentially, we define
the base link of the robot as being in the position xy in
a fixed coordinate frame. We also take the heading
of the robot to be Theta relative
to the x-axis. Taking these together, the
xy position along with the heading Theta gives us the state of the robot
at any point. For the bicycle model, the inputs given at each point in time are the velocity
and the steering angle. These inputs along
with the current state are what allow us
to calculate how a trajectory will
evolve with time according to the bicycle model
kinematic equations. One thing to take away
from this is that we often do not have direct access
to the state of the robot. We cannot tell the robot
directly to go to a specific position
in x and y. We can however, devise
a sequence of control inputs, u sub n that will
allow us to reach said xy position according to
the kinematic equations. The sequence of
control inputs will correspond to a trajectory
that the robot will follow. Now that we've seen an example of some kinematic equations,
you might be asking, "How do we actually calculate a trajectory for
a given sequence of inputs?" The kinematic
equations we've given you essentially amount to a system of continuous time
differential equations. For trajectory
generation purposes, we'll be focusing on
the discrete analog of these equations as
discussed in course one. By focusing on
the discrete model, it allows us to easily
and efficiently propagate trajectories for a given
sequence of control inputs. Many methods exist
for discretizing continuous time differential
equations and we use a simple zero-order hold
here and have provided you with additional resources in the supplemental materials
if you'd like to see more. A consequence of
the discretization of these equations is that we can implement the sum over all of the updates in
the sequence recursively, which allows us to build up the full trajectory iteratively for a given sequence of inputs. This saves in
computational effort because rather than recomputing a sum over all previous updates for each point in the trajectory, we can incrementally
compute the next point of the trajectory using only the
previously computed point. This is shown as
the final right-hand side for each of the state
variable equations. We will be using
this recursive solution throughout this module. If we now apply
this discretization and step through an entire
control input sequence, we will get an
accurate approximation of the trajectory that
the robot will follow. While this is useful for
trajectory planning, it is also useful for
motion prediction, where we know
a kinematic model of a different agent in
the driving scenario and we have an educated guess on the control inputs
they will take. From this, we can estimate their future trajectory
which can help us plan our motion to
avoid collisions. As an example, suppose we take a constant velocity
input as well as a constant steering angle
to our bicycle model. As shown here in the animation, this results in the robot
traversing the arc with constant speed while it's heading slowly changes with
each time step. If we instead vary
the steering angle along the path according
to some steering function, we can perform
more complex maneuvers, which are critical for such
tasks as obstacle avoidance. This is essentially the crux of the local planning problem, calculating the
required control inputs to safely navigate to
a given goal point. In the animation, we can
see that driving with a constant steering
angle as we did before would result
in a collision. To remedy this, we have given
the robot a sequence of different steering angle inputs in order to avoid the obstacle. We're now ready to
start planning paths through environments
with obstacles. In this video, we reviewed
the difference between kinematic and dynamic models as well as the bicycle model that we introduced in course one. From there, we discussed how to compute trajectories
for a given model and set of control inputs using our trajectory
propagation algorithm. This algorithm will come
in handy when we develop the rest of our motion planner
in this module. Hopefully, this video
has given you some insight on how to take a robot's kinematic
model and generate a trajectory for it
given arbitrary inputs. In our next video, we will discuss some
efficient collision checking methods that we can use when evaluating
different plan paths for safety. See you there.