Hello everyone, and welcome to our final lesson in module six. In this video, we'll
discuss how to augment the trajectory
rollout algorithm we developed in the previous lesson with a technique known
as dynamic windowing. Dynamic windowing will allow
us to place linear and angular acceleration constraints on the vehicle's trajectory, in order to promote comfort as the vehicle progresses
between planning cycles. Specifically, by
the end of this video, you should be able to add acceleration constraints
to the bicycle model derived in course one, and you should be able to modify the trajectory
rollout algorithm to accommodate these new constraints using dynamic windowing. Let's get started.
First, let's revisit lesson one where we discussed the kinematic equations
for a bicycle model. Essentially, the two inputs to the bicycle model are the linear velocity in the steering angle, which change the position and heading of the robot over time. One thing to notice
with this entire set of kinematic equations
is that there is no consideration of
higher-order terms, such as acceleration or jerk. These higher-order terms are what cause discomfort for
passengers in the car, so we should try to address
this in our kinematic model. Even without incorporating
the full dynamic models discussed in course one into the trajectory
planning process, we can restrict
the selected inputs to consider the effects of
rapid changes on ride comfort. We can do this by adding
a constraint for the range of linear and angular accelerations permitted for our bicycle model. This will limit
the extent to which passengers in our vehicle
will experience forces and torques while our vehicle traverses
its planned trajectory. However, this comes
with a trade-off. Our motion planner will lose some maneuverability at
each planning iteration. Specifically, after adding this angular
acceleration constraint, we may not be able to move to every possible steering angle
in our steering angle set, because they may induce too high of an angular acceleration. In addition, we may
not be able to ramp our velocity up or down as quickly between
planning iterations. Let's focus on the angular
acceleration constraint and derive the resulting
steering angle restriction. Recall that the
angular velocity for the bicycle model is given
by vtandelta over L. The magnitude of
the angular acceleration is therefore
approximately given by the absolute difference between
the angular velocities of our start and ending steering angles divided by
the time step we're using. Rearranging the terms
using the fact that v and L are always
positive for our planner, we have the requirement that the absolute value of the tan
of delta at time two minus the tan of delta at time one must be less than
or equal to theta double-dot max times L over v. To help solidify how
this impacts our planner, let's analyze a concrete example. Suppose our bicycle
model is moving at a constant linear
velocity of one meter per second across
all candidate trajectories, and has a current steering angle
of pi over eight. Suppose the maximum and
minimum steering angle for this robot or pi over four and minus pi over
four respectively, and that our steering angle
step size is pi over eight. In addition, suppose our
trajectories are sampled at a time resolution
of 0.1 seconds, and that our bicycle model robot has a length of one meter. Finally, let's constrain
our angular acceleration to 0.6 radians per
second squared. Let's apply our derived
steering angle constraints to this example problem. We have that our current
steering angle delta one is pi over eight. By substituting
each potential steering angle into our steering angle set, we see that the angular
acceleration constraint is violated if we were to change
our steering angle to minus pi over eight or
minus pi over four. However, changing
it to pi over four zero or keeping it the
same at pi over eight, are all valid selections according to our new constraints. To illustrate this,
we have colored the disallowed trajectories red. The remaining
trajectories colored in green are still available to the subsequent step of the reactive planner that we developed in the previous lesson. This illustrates that in general, the added constraints will reduce the maneuverability of
the robot to a certain extent, while promoting
more comfortable trajectories. The more restrictive
the set of constraints, the less maneuverable
the robot will be. We can also apply
similar logic to the case of a linear acceleration
constraint and a range of linear velocity
inputs available to us, or even have both constraints applied to the robot
at the same time. In general, the dynamic
window approach allows us to incorporate more restrictions on how the trajectory evolves
during planning, resulting in motion
that better satisfies a broad set of objectives
simultaneously. To summarize this lesson, we first introduced additional
acceleration constraints to our bicycle model. We then derive the process of dynamic windowing to restrict
our trajectory set at each time step in
order to satisfy these new constraints for our trajectory rollout algorithm. Congratulations, you've now reached
the end of this module. Let's review what we've covered. We first developed the concept of trajectory propagation
in order to generate trajectories for
a given motion model. We then moved on to
collision checking, which is necessary for developing collision-free motion plans
for our autonomous vehicle. Then, we combined
these two concepts into the trajectory rollout planner
and augmented it using dynamic windowing to handle acceleration constraints. By now, you should have
a strong foundation in reactive planning centered on the trajectory rollout algorithm. This is a compact and effective general motion planning strategy suitable for a wide range
of planning tasks, with a wide variety of
objectives and constraints. In the next module, we will start our discussion of dynamic environments and use
trajectory propagation and collision detection to
predict the motion of other objects and determine whether a collision might occur. See you there.