Hello everyone and welcome to our second lesson in our module on reactive
motion planning. In this video, we'll
discuss the methods that we can use to ensure
our motion plans don't collide with obstacles in the environment while we're making progress towards our goal. This step is clearly crucial in maintaining the safety of our autonomous car
while it's driving. Specifically by
the end of this video, you should understand some of the challenges of online
collision checking. You should also understand
to collision checking methods, swath-based collision checking, and circle-based
collision checking. Finally, you should understand
some of the hazards posed by imperfect information
and discretization errors, and understand how
we can mitigate these issues with
conservative approximations. So let's get started.
At its core, collision checking
in the context of motion planning is the process of ensuring a given trajectory or planned path when traversed by an object does not collide with any obstacles
along the way. An important aspect to note about collision checking is
that it is a challenging, computationally intensive problem present in many domains, including autonomous driving and other robotic applications, gaming, 3D animation,
and engineering design. Guaranteeing a safe
collision-free optimal path not only requires perfect information
about the environment, it also requires
a prohibitive amount of computation power
to compute in exact form especially for complex shapes and
detailed environments. For autonomous driving which
requires real-time planning, we have neither of
these available to us. As you can recall
from module two, the information given to us by the occupancy grid is
an imperfect estimate, which means that we
need to add buffers to our collision checking algorithms to make them more error tolerant. In exact form, collision
checking amounts to rotating and translating the footprint of a vehicle along every point
of a given path. Each point in the footprint
is rotated by the heading at each path point and translated by the position of
that same path point. This approach is
summarized by the set S, where p is a path composed of a set of points p and F denotes a function that
returns the set points contained in a footprint
rotated by theta, and translated by x and y. For example, suppose I
have a path point at one minus one and
minus pi over two. To get the footprint
at this point, I have to rotate the footprint by minus pi over two and then translate the base link of our car footprint by
one and minus one. After performing this for
every point along the path, the resulting swath of the car
along the path is given by the union of each rotated
and translated footprint. We then check this entire set to see if there are
any obstacles inside it. If there are, the path contains a collision and otherwise
it's collision-free. We now need to take the swath computation
in its abstract form, and convert it to a discrete formulation that can be calculated by a computer. Suppose we have
a discrete representation of the cars footprint and the path in terms of
the occupancy grid, which was discussed
in module two. The cars footprint contains K points and the path
is endpoints long. Algorithmically, computing
the swath requires us to rotate and translate all K
points in the cars footprint, and times one for
each point in the path. Let's look at
a concrete example of a rotation and translation
using our occupancy grid. Suppose our occupancy grid
has a resolution of one meter and our footprint occupies the following
three grid points; zero, zero, one,
zero, and two, zero. Suppose we have a path point
that we would like to rotate and translate to at one, two and pi over 2. First, we should
rotate each point in the footprint about
the origin by pi over two. Doing so, gives us
new grid points at zero, zero, zero, one, and zero, two. To complete the footprint
transformation, we then translate
it by one and two. Doing so, gives us
the final grid points; one, two, one, three,
and one, four. Recall that the order of the steps in this
transformation matters. If we first translated and then rotate it about the origin, we would get
an incorrect location for the transformed points. To get the actual
occupancy grid index, we offset the x and y points
by the capital x and y, which are the sizes of the x and y dimensions of the
occupancy grid respectively. We can then divide this by
the grid resolution delta to get the associated indices
in the occupancy grid. We then add each of these points
to a set data structure. Since we are maintaining a set, we are ensuring that there are no duplicate points in our swath. As you can imagine, this computation becomes quite expensive as the problem scales, which makes it difficult to use when performing
real-time planning. In addition, using
the exact footprint when calculating the swath can be dangerous due to
our imperfect information, as there is no buffer for
errors in obstacle positions. Because this swath-based method is often computationally
expensive, it is often useful when we are exploiting a lot of repetition in our motion planning algorithm as in the case in
lattice planners. Since we are constrained
to a small set of control actions each step
of a lattice planner, we are also constrained
to a small set of swaths, so their union can be
pre-computed offline. When performing collision
checking online, the problem reduces to
multiple array lookups. To help mitigate
both the challenge of imperfect information and extensive computation
requirements, we often use conservative
approximations to collision checking, sacrificing optimality to
improve speed and robustness. In this context,
optimality is defined by your selection of an
appropriate objective function, some of which we discussed
earlier in this course. Since we switched to approximate collision checking to gain
computing performance, we must use approximations
that are overly conservative. The goal in selecting a particular approximation
is to find one that offers great algorithmic speed-up without
compromising safety, but also minimizing the degree to which our trajectories
become sub-optimal. What do we mean by
conservative approximation to collision checking? In this context, a conservative approximation to collision checking would be one that may report a collision along a path even
if there isn't one, but will never report
no collision along a path if one does
actually occur. For a concrete example, suppose we have
a car as shown here. Now suppose we replaced the cars footprint with
overlapping circles. The overlapping
circles completely encompass the footprint of
the cars rectangular body, which means the
footprint of the car is a subset of the footprint of
all three circles combined. No matter what
trajectory we follow, the swath generated by
the rectangle will be a subset of the swath generated by
the overlapping circles. Why is this conservative? Suppose we have
an obstacle inside the circle footprints but not
inside the car footprint, this would result in
a location being reported by the collision checker even though one wouldn't
actually occur. However, if an obstacle lies
outside of the circles, no collision will be detected
and none will occur. This means that
the collision checker may contain some false
positive collisions, but will not contain
a false negative. This results in a nice buffer for our car that helps alleviate the issues presented by the imperfect information
provided to us. This circle approximation is
useful for some algorithms because it is
computationally cheap to check if a point lies
within a circle. All we need to do is check if the distance between
any of the points of the obstacle and the center of the circle is less than
the radius of the circle. For example, the position
of this pylon from the center of the circle is less than the radius
of the circle, so collision would be reported. However, for the second circle, the pylon lies outside
the radius of the circle, which would result in
this particular section of the path of the car being
free from collision. If the occupancy grid is
implemented such that it can provide the distance to the nearest object
at each grid point, this can be a simple lookup in an array which is extremely efficient relative to checking for arbitrary polygon
intersections. One thing to realize about
conservative approximations, is that they may eliminate all feasible collision-free
paths from a problem even though a path exists or eliminate safe passages
through narrow openings. This can cause the planner to get stuck when it
shouldn't or can cause the planner to compute a much more circuitous route
than is necessary. Depending on which motion
planning algorithm you use and the structure
of your occupancy grid, different collision
checking algorithms will be more efficient
than others. It will be up to you as
an autonomous driving engineer to decide which algorithm
best suits your application. One thing to note in all of these calculations is
that they are all in discrete form since we are performing these
computations on a computer. Therefore, our collision
checking accuracy is also influenced by
the resolution that we choose when performing
our discretizations. To illustrate this,
suppose we have this same path and footprint but suppose one swath is computed with much coarser
resolution than the other. We can see that
the coarser resolution results in large gaps in our swath, which can result in
errors if there are obstacles at those positions. The finer the resolution we choose for our
collision checking, the more accurate it will be. However, higher resolution also incurs a computational cost. So you again, as an autonomous driving engineer
will need to strike the right balance between accuracy and computational speed. Rest assured, there are many excellent collision
checking libraries available and we've included
some useful links for you to use in the
supplemental materials. To summarize in this video, we discussed how we can use the occupancy grid
developed in module two to solve the collision
checking problem using swath-based
collision checking. As well that we described the circle based collision
checking method. We went over some examples to illustrate these algorithms and discussed in what situations each type of collision
checking should be used. Hopefully, this video has
given you some insight into how collision checking is done in an autonomous driving context. Performing quick and efficient collision checking
especially with dynamic obstacles is currently an area of active research, and we hope that you too
will help contribute to solving these challenging
and interesting problems. In the next video, we will introduce a reactive
planning algorithm for this module which is called the Trajectory
Rollout algorithm. It will combine
the collision checking approach we've
developed here with the concepts covered in the trajectory propagation
lesson. See you then.