Hello everyone. Welcome to
this video in which we roll through the many major milestones in the rapidly evolving story
of self-driving cars. A driverless future seems
just around the corner, but it's been a long arduous journey
to arrive at this point. The dream of self-driving cars is
almost as old as the automobile. As early as 1925, Francis Udina demonstrated
a remote control car called the American wonder, which drove through the streets of Manhattan frightening passerbys
with an empty driver's seat. Udina, a local mechanic, is not to be confused
with Harry Houdini, the famous escape artist, who was rather upset and
started an altercation when people accidentally
attributed the marvel to him. The self-driving car dream
was alive and well in 1956, as GM or at least a promotional
video cleaning self-driving cars would arrive by 1976. In the key to the future, GM saw humans handing over
control on the highway, enjoying a stress-free drive, and the passengers
even interacting with the car in voice activated
control features. A little optimistic,
but in terms of timing, it's amazing how many of these videos predictions are now becoming
available in the market. This dreams inspiration come straight from the reality
of driving in busy traffic. There is no doubt that one of
the most dangerous things we do on a regular basis
is driving our car. In fact, more than 94 percent of all driving accidents today are caused by some kind of human error. What if we could minimize or
completely eliminate driving deaths by taking human error out of the picture
through automation? There are also
many other profound benefits that could arise from
a driverless future. Instead of focusing on lanes, turns, and traffic, you can
reply to work emails. Eat or relax and make the morning
so much more productive. We can extend
the mobility the driving provides to the entire
human population, not just those able to
perform the driving task. Let's go back to the beginning
of the self-driving car story, and take a look at the milestones
that have defined this industry, at the breakthroughs that
make it all seem possible, and at the setbacks that
remind us how ambitious this vision of ubiquitous
autonomy really is. Our journey starts out with some early advances in
Europe in the 1980s. Pioneers had been working on self-driving technology
for over 40 years, with early vehicles mostly partially autonomous and operating
at low speeds. In 1986, Ernst Dickens
and his team from the University of Munich pioneer to robotic van that could drive fully
autonomously without traffic, and in 1987, it drove it speeds
up to 60 kilometers per hour. In the early 1990s, his team contributed significantly to the Eureka Prometheus project, and develop an autonomous
Daimler Benz using psychotic computer vision that is focusing on points of
interest in the environment. They had over 50 transporters, the latest microprocessors
of the day and the same probabilistic
approaches used throughout robotics on-board to few sensor input and react to road
situations in real time. Ultimately, the diamond bends drove 1,600 kilometers in
traffic from Munich to Copenhagen with
a mean distance between human intervention
of nine kilometers. At the same time in the US, Carnegie Mellon University's
Navlab was busy building a steady series of prototypes
with ever-improving capabilities. In 1986, there first
autonomous vehicle, Navlab1, managed 30 kilometers per hour on the road using
multiple sun workstations. Then in 1990, Navlab2, a modified Humvee which could perform autonomously both off than on-road, reached autonomous speeds of 110
kilometers per hour on the road. This pushed the team
to attempt something much more ambitious, and in 1996, they completed their no hands
across America tour, a 4,800 kilometer route
across the continent with an impressive 98.2 percent
to autonomous driving. Soon after, the UC Berkeley path
project rose to prominence with successful demonstrations
of autonomous platoons of vehicles operating on
dedicated HOV lanes on the I5. In 1992, four vehicles drove
in convoy at highway speeds relying on magnetic markers on the roadway for
precise relative positioning, and demonstrated that
using this kind of convoy saves on fuel costs
and reduces wind drag. Successful tests
continued and in 1997, large scale demonstrations with eight to 10 vehicles were completed. The project also firmly
established the use of radar systems and vehicle to vehicle communications
in the AV industry, leading to advances such as adaptive cruise control
and emergency braking. Then in 2002, DARPA, the Defense Advanced
Research Projects Agency announced the first of
its grand challenges. That would forever change the world's perception about
what autonomous robots can do. The first event was held
in 2004 and DARPA offered the winners a one
million dollar prize if they could build
an autonomous vehicle, that was able to navigate 142
miles through the Mojave Desert. Although the first event saw only a few teams get
off the start line and Carnegie Mellon's red team taking first-place haven't
driven only seven miles, it was clear that the task of driving 140 miles through the desert without any human aid was indeed possible. In the second DARPA grand
challenge the next year, five of the 23 teams
smashed expectations and successfully completed the track without any human
intervention at all. Stanford's vehicle stanley won the challenge followed by
Carnegie Mellon Sandstorm. The era of driverless
cars had arrived. Later, the 2007 installment
called the DARPA Urban Challenge, invited universities to show off their autonomous vehicles on busy roads with
professional stunt drivers. This time, after
a harrowing 30-minute delay when the jumbotron screen block their vehicle from
receiving GPS signals, the Carnegie Mellon team
came out on top, with Stanford Junior vehicle
coming in second. The three grand challenges were truly a watershed moment in the
development of self-driving cars, changing the way the public and
more importantly the tech and automotive industries thought about the feasibility of
full vehicle autonomy. It was now clear that a massive new market was opening
up, and the race was on. Google immediately
brought the team leads from both Carnegie Mellon
and Stanford, Chris Thompson, and
Mike Monte-Carlo to push their designs onto public roads. By 2010, Google's car had logged
over 140 thousand miles in California and later
wrote in a blog post how they were confident on cutting the number of traffic deaths by half. Their pursuit of this ambitious goal
continues to this day with the team having logged
over 10 million miles as of October of 2018. Around the same time as the first
autonomous testing in the US, two orange vans from the viz lab completed the international
autonomous challenge, driving an entire route from the University of Parma Italy
to Shanghai China, which was about 15,000 kilometers with
minimal driver intervention. A year later, Volvo demonstrated their road train concept in which one vehicle could control
several other vehicles behind it, thereby reducing road congestion
and improving driver comfort. Car drivers could choose
a lead truck to follow, but the close following lead to frequent vehicle damage in
low visibility in rainy conditions. As the pace of
development accelerated, more and more companies
were pushing for a legal framework
for on-road testing. In 2012, the Nevada Department
of Motor Vehicles issued Google the first ever autonomous
vehicle testing license, which meant they could now test
autonomously on public roads. California is soon followed suit with a mandated
requirement to publish a variety of statistics on the test performed and the rates
of human intervention. In 2013, 125 years after the first Bertha Benz car
was demonstrated for public use, mercedes benz demonstrated
their self-driving capabilities by covering the same 106
kilometer route autonomously. With multiple players demonstrating
viable on-road demos, public interest in
autonomous driving has taken off. The consumer electronics show in Nevada became the annual showcase for the greatest self-driving tech and
the wildest vehicle redesigns. About a year later, Google demoed their firefly car, a vehicle designed from
the ground up to be autonomous at speeds up to
40 kilometers per hour. With no steering wheel or pedals, passengers can instead
sit back and relax and only press one stop button
if they feel uncomfortable. By doing so, Google showed us what
the AV future could look like. Tesla wasn't far behind. Around the end of 2015, they introduced their suite of autonomous features into
the software called autopilot. By 2016, they had
demonstrated how autopilot could self park and could
be summoned by a button. This represented
the largest deployment that partially autonomous
features at the time, and so Tesla quickly racking up millions of kilometers
driven with their autopilot. Inevitably however, as the number of autonomous
miles driven expanded, the first fatal accident involving a Tesla Model S happened
in Florida in 2016. This was caused by a simultaneous
failure of both Camera and radar sensors to correctly identify a left turning
transport truck, and an inattentive driver used to
a car that takes care of itself. This setback demonstrated
the dangers of reliance on human monitoring
of self-driving systems. Despite this setback,
progress continued unabated. This was also the time the notion of autonomous taxi fleets
were becoming popular. The startups like Zoox and
nuTonomy leading the way. In fact, nuTonomy taxis first became operational in
Singapore in 2016. Finally, we arrive at 2018. The infamous Uber crash that claim
to pedestrians life in Arizona. This incident sent
shock waves through the autonomous vehicle
testing community, with Uber stopping testing until the details could be fully understood through an independent
investigation by the national highway traffic
safety administration. We'll discuss this worrying case
in more detail in the first course as an example of the challenges that remain
in self-driving systems. So, the story of the development of autonomous vehicles is a story of enormous successes as well as setbacks that seemed to be
happening more often recently. So, what is it that's driving the increase in self-driving
accidents during testing? First, the number of
miles being driven by self-driving cars in
hard conditions is exploding. So, the number of accidents
are bound to go up. In fact, way more recently
announced that as a fall 2018, they've completed over 10 million
miles of autonomous driving. The time between human interventions
continues to grow with the most advanced systems traveling thousands of kilometers without
any intervention at all. Human level performance appears
to be just around the corner, where the industry
needs more support than ever to meet and exceed
this ambitious goal. Many new and established
companies are pushing to bring truly driverless cars
to market as early as 2020. The first large-scale deployments
will be in fleets, where companies own
the vehicles and provide revolutionary new services like robo taxis and driverless delivery. The technology is
still quite expensive, but prices will fall quickly as
economies of scale takeover. So much still needs to
be done to bring about the transformational
changes we expect driverless cars to
bring to our society. The industry will continue to need outstanding engineers to produce
innovative solutions for driving. So I guess, the real question is, are you ready to help shape
the future of personal mobility?