Welcome to the final
lesson of module one. We'll finish off
the module by discussing an
important connection, that will help to provide
further intuition for the method of
least squares. Specifically, by
the end of this lesson, you'll be able to
state the connection between the method
of least squares and maximum
likelihood estimation with Gaussian
random variables. Let's begin by recalling the least squares
criterion from the very first video
in this module. We found the
best estimates of some unknown, but constant parameters by determining
the values that minimize the sum of squared errors based
on our measurements. But we can ask, why
squared errors? Why not cubed errors, or square root errors,
or something else? This is actually
a particularly deep question and there is a whole field of
robust statistics dedicated to it. You can indeed use different error functions, but we'll go over
two reasons why squared errors are
attractive and relevant. The first is simple. Squared errors allow
us to solve for the optimal
parameters with relatively
straightforward algebra. If the measurement
model is linear, minimizing the squared
error criterion amounts to
solving a linear system of equations. The second reason
has to do with probability and
a deep connection between least squares and maximum likelihood
estimators under the assumption
of Gaussian noise. As you may have guessed, this connection
was first derived in a particular
form by Gauss. So, it's no surprise
that it involves Gaussian random
variables or equivalently
Gaussian noise. To understand this
fundamental connection, let's first discuss
maximum likelihood. Instead of writing
down a loss, we can approach
the problem of optimal parameter
estimation by asking, which parameters make our recorded measurements
the most likely? To keep things simple, we'll stick to
a single scalar parameter to build our intuition. For example, let's look again at measuring
resistance. Given what we know
about probability, if we have
four possible values for this unknown
resistance parameter, capital X, small x sub A through small x sub D, and each gives rise to the following
conditional probability on our measurement Y, which value would maximize the conditional
likelihood given the measurement Y sub mes? That's right. X sub A. The highest
probability density at the measured location is given by the green curve, which means
that X sub A is our most likely parameter value given
this measurement. Now, if we take our simple
measurement model, we can convert it to a probability density by assuming a density for
our additive noise. The unknown parameter, X, becomes the mean
of this density and the variance is simply our noise variance. Recall that the
probability density of a Gaussian
random variable is given by the
following equation. This means that
we can express our measurement
likelihood for a single measurement
as follows. If we have multiple independent measurements, each with the same
noise variance, we can simply
take the product of multiple Gaussians, which results in
another Gaussian. We can try to maximize
this likelihood with respect to the mean
parameter X half. To do this, we'll use
a technique that's often used in
optimization. Instead of maximizing the likelihood directly, we'll take it's logarithm and maximize that. Since the likelihood will always be a
positive number and because the logarithm is a monotonically
increasing function, this will not affect
the final result, which is very convenient. Once we apply the logarithm to
this likelihood, we see that something
pops out that looks a lot like the sum
of squared errors. The constant C in
this expression refers to terms that are not a function of X and ones which we can
safely ignore. The last step is now to realize that the arg max
of the function F is the same as the arg min of the negative of that function. Using this fact,
we can turn our likelihood
maximization into a minimization of the sum of squared errors. For that,
minimizing the sum of squared errors is equivalent to maximizing
the likelihood of a set of measurements, assuming that
the measurements are corrupted by additive, independent,
Gaussian noise that's of equal variance. Furthermore, if we maintain the same
assumptions, but change the variance of the Gaussian noise
for each measurement, we can arrive at
the same criterion as we saw in our weighted
least squares video. So, in both cases, the maximum
likelihood estimate, given additive
Gaussian noise, is equivalent to
the least squares or weighted least
squares solutions we derived earlier. So, why is this result
so important? Our self-driving car will have to deal with many, many sources of error. Some of which are very
difficult to model. However, the central
limit theorem, tells us that when combining all of
these errors together, they can reasonably
be modeled by a single Gaussian
error distribution. We would like to
model our system probabilistically and yet maintain
simplicity in calculations. If our errors
are Gaussian, then the best maximum
likelihood estimate of the parameters
of interest, is exactly the least
squares solution we're already
familiar with. Easy. To finish off, let's discuss
one important caveat for this method. When we use the method
of least squares, measurement
outliers can have a significant effect
on our final estimate. To understand why, consider that under a Gaussian distribution, a sample that
is two standard deviations away
from the mean, has less than a five percent probability
of occurring. As a result, if there are some outliers in
our measurement data, the method of
maximum likelihood, and equivalently, the method of
least squares, will put significant
importance on these measurements. So, the estimated value of our parameter
will be pulled strongly by
these outliers. Our optimal method
will be skewed so that the outlying
measurement is more likely. This can happen to
many estimators using sensor data from a self-driving vehicle. Outliers might
result from people walking in the middle
of a Lidar scan, for example, or from
a bad GPS signal. Consider our
resistor example. With one outlying
measurement that may come from
a simple accident, the final estimate is
pulled significantly away from that of
the outlier free case. We always want to be cognizant of
outliers and try to quantify
the error distribution whenever possible, before blindly applying maximum likelihood
or least squares. Now, that we've derived
this connection between maximum likelihood
and least squares, we're ready to extend our recursive
least squares estimator to
the full common filter, one of the most
famous algorithms of the 20th century. To summarize, we've learned that
the method of least squares and
weighted least squares produce the same
estimates as maximum likelihood,
given Gaussian noise. This is particularly
important because many complex
noise sources, when added, will tend
towards a Gaussian. However, it's always important
to be wary of outlier measurements
that can significantly affect our final estimate values. In the next module, we'll take a look
at how we can now extend what
we've learned about least squares and parameter estimation to continually
varying states, that may have more
complex nonlinear models associated with
them. See you there.