Welcome to the third and
final lesson this week. In this video, we will be
looking at the concept of time to collision between
two dynamic objects. In this video we will present two alternatives
for calculating the time to collision:
simulation-based approaches and estimation-based approaches. Compare the strengths
and weaknesses of both approaches and highlight where each is most readily used, and explore the simulation-based
approach in more detail and calculate the time to collision between
any two vehicles. Let's dive in. The time
to collision provides a valuable measure of behavioral safety in
a self-driving vehicle, and is heavily used in
assessing potential maneuvers, based on the current
driving environment. By knowing if collisions
are imminent and when they might occur
and with which object, a self-driving system can better plan safe maneuvers
through the environment, or prepare for emergency
evasive actions if needed. To evaluate the time to collision between
dynamic objects, we use their predicted paths to identify possible
collision points. If a collision point exists, the time to collision
is a measure of the amount of time until
that collision occurs. Computing the time
to collision can therefore be accomplished in two steps. First, we identify and
compute the location of a collision point along the predicted paths between
the dynamic objects, and second, if such
a collision point exists, we then compute the amount of
time that it will take for the dynamic objects to arrive
at that collision point. The challenge with computing
the time to collision, is that it relies very much on an accurate understanding of the space that will be occupied by the objects in the future, to achieve accurate estimates. Clearly, accurate predictions of the objects trajectories are critical to identifying
collision points in their time of occurrence. Precise prediction of
object trajectories is as we saw in the previous two lessons,
a difficult problem. Furthermore, we also need accurate geometries for all dynamic objects
in the environment. This is required as when the time to collision
is computed, the geometries of
both the vehicles are considered to calculate
the exact collision point. As objects in the
environment are only seen from the current
and previous viewpoints, it can be challenging
to accurately define their geometry
while driving. Due to errors in
both requirements, the time to collision should always be treated as
an approximation, updated regularly,
and treated with some safety buffer when making
decisions about driving. There are two main
approaches to calculating the time to collision
between two objects. The simulation-based approach, and the estimation-based
approach. Simulation-based approaches
simulate the movement of every vehicle in this scene over a finite horizon into the future. At each simulation time
step, new position, heading, and occupancy extent predictions are calculated for
every dynamic object. This is done by propagating forward the predicted trajectory, as discussed in
the previous module. Once the position of
all dynamic objects is known for a given time
in the simulated future, a check is conducted
to determine if any two or more dynamic objects have collided with each other. If they have collided,
the location and time to the collision
is then noted. Note that this is
a different type of collision checking than
in the static case, where swaths of
the entire path were constructed and compared to
static object locations. Because these
collision checks are performed between moving objects, we only need to check
collisions between the geometries of
each object at each instant, as the objects will occupy new locations at
the next time step. Estimation-based
approaches function by computing the evolution of the geometry of each vehicle as it moves through
its predicted path. The results is a swath
for each vehicle that can then be compared
for potential collisions. Once the swath has been computed, their intersection
can be explored for potential collision points
by computing, if any two or more
dynamic objects will occupy the same space
at the same time. If this is true, potential
collision points are tagged, and an estimation of when
each vehicle will arrive at each collision point is used to estimate
the time to collision. This method traditionally makes many simplifying assumptions to accelerate the calculations. These assumptions
include: identifying collision point locations based on object path
intersection points, estimating object space
occupancy based on simple geometric primitives
like bounding boxes, and estimating the time to reach a collision point based on
a constant velocity profile. Each approach has strengths and weaknesses relative to the other. Estimation-based
approaches rely on simplifying assumptions which
make the computation of time to collision less
computationally expensive both in terms of
memory requirements, and processing efforts. Simulation approaches tend to be more computationally
expensive, as they involve
step-by-step evaluations, and object geometry
intersection computations. Due to their simplifying
assumptions however, estimation-based approaches
usually create a less accurate estimate of the collision point and
the time to collision. Simulation approaches
on the other hand do not need to rely on
these approximations, and with small step sizes, can perform high
fidelity evaluation of the time to collision. These relative differences make each algorithm suited to
different applications. For real-time
applications such as onboard time to
collision computation, estimation-based approaches
are preferred. Whereas offline, where
accuracy is vital such as dataset creation and
simulation-based testing, simulation-based approaches
are preferred. Let's look at a simple
simulation-based approach to calculating
both the collision points, and the time to each collision
point in more detail. Estimation-based
approaches are outside the scope of this video, but we've included
an extensive set of links to estimation-based methods in
the supplemental materials. The algorithm for
the simulation-based approach takes as input a list
of dynamic objects D, with their predicted paths including the planned path
for the ego vehicle. The time between simulation
prediction steps DT if sim, and any parameters
needed to define the collision checking
approach to be used. Be it polygon intersection requiring the object footprints, or circle checking requiring
the number of circles, and their spacing relative
to the object position. The output that
this algorithm will provide is the collision point and the time to collision for every pair of objects
that have one. Note that the simulation
time steps can be a different size than
the predicted path time steps, to improve collision checking
approximation accuracy. The algorithm loops through
each time step from the current time to the end
of the simulation horizon, which can't exceed
the maximum length of the predicted
and planned paths. At each time step, we propagate forward
the positions of all dynamic objects along their path by one step using the dynamic object
motion predictions. The object states,
position, heading, and velocity of all objects are established
through this update, one time step at a time. Then for every pair of objects, we perform pairwise
collision checking. If a collision point is found, then the current
simulated time is added to this collision point to
estimate the time to collision. Let's refine each stage of the simulation approach
a little further. For state prediction, we
must take into account the possibility that the
predicted path state time steps, do not align with
the simulation time steps. Thus to get the best estimate of a given dynamic object
vehicle state at a point in time required
by the simulation, we find the closest state preceding the current
simulated time, either by looping through
each object's predicted path, or by tracking
the current predicted path reference states
throughout the simulation loop. We then apply
the predicted inputs for the remaining interval of time to arrive at a prediction
of the object location, at the current simulation time. For pairwise collision checking, we can proceed either
exactly or approximately. In either case, because
we're now comparing pairs of dynamic objects
with each other, we present both objects
similarly and must modify our collision check to not rely on occupancy
grid information, as we did in the static case. For the exact approach, a polygonal intersection
is performed and any overlap
implies a collision. For the circle approximation, each circle pair is compared, which leads to
nine distance checks for three circle approximation and 16 distance checks for
a four-circle approximation. Note that as the number of dynamic objects increases
in the scene, the number of collision checks
scales quadratically, if exhaustively evaluating
all possible collisions. It is of course also
possible to only compare the ego
vehicle to others, to keep computational
complexity linear, or eliminate large portions
of the pairwise comparisons, based on a single
point-to-point distance check between the centroids. If two objects are not
within a distance of two times their combined
longest axis dimension, no further checking is required. Once a collision is detected, a calculation can be performed to establish the collision point. If we assume small increments
for the simulation, this first collision point
is a single point that satisfies both equations of the circles around each object. Rearranging leads to
the following pair of equations for x
and y coordinates. The x-coordinate of
the collision point is equal to the x-coordinate of
the center of circle I, multiplied by
the radius of circle j, plus the x-coordinate of circle j multiplied by
the radius of circle I. All divided by the sum
of the two radii. The same equation is then
used for the y-coordinate; however, using
the y-coordinate of both circles rather
than the x-coordinate. It is also possible to identify both intersection points
when the circles overlap, and the equations are available in the supplementary materials. As is often the case, there exists a trade-off between the accuracy of the time
to collision estimate, and the overall computation time. As we increase the fidelity
of the collision check, we also increase the number
of computations required. Likewise as can be
seen in this example, if we reduce the number of
circles considered to one, the number of
computations goes down, but the accuracy of the exact collision points
suffers significantly. You should now have
a strong handle on the time to collision
computation, and the implications
of approximations in terms of accuracy of
the predicted solution. To summarize in this video, we defined the time to collision for pairs of dynamic objects. We discussed the strengths
and weaknesses of two types of time
to collision algorithms, simulation-based and
estimation based. We presented the
simulation-based approach to time to collision prediction,
in more detail. Congratulations. You've made it through the dynamic object
interactions module. In this module,
you learned how to predict a dynamic objects motion, using the constant
velocity model, you refined your
motion predictions to incorporate HD road
map information, and you apply your motion
predictions to the task of estimating the time to collision between
dynamic objects. We'll see you in the next module, where we will study
the behavior planner, the key decision-maker for selecting appropriate
maneuvers to execute, for every driving scenario
encountered. See you there.