Welcome to the second lesson in our module on Dynamic
Object Interaction. In this video, we will
be extending the topic of motion prediction
of dynamic objects, to include information
available from the HD road map. To begin, we will discuss the different assumptions relied on by map-aware where algorithms, for motion prediction, To keep the task simple
and efficient. Then we will look at applying a lane following
prediction approach, to improve position
prediction components. Next, we'll explore
map-based prediction when multiple lane options
are available. Then we'll explore a
velocity prediction around regulatory elements. Finally, we'll discuss
some of the issues in short-falls of
map-aware predictions that revolve around assumptions made regarding dynamic objects.
So let's get started. In the previous video, we explored constant
velocity motion prediction, which worked well only in a very limited number
of scenarios. Map-aware algorithms make two broad categories
of assumptions to improve the motion predictions particularly for vehicles. Position-based
assumptions to improve the position component
of the vehicle state, and velocity-based assumptions to improve the velocity component. The first assumption
made to improve the position component
of the prediction, is that vehicles driving down a given lane usually
follow that lane. Returning to our simple
example scenario, if we have a vehicle
on a curved roadway, the vehicle will most likely
turn along with the roadway. The second assumption
that can be made is that a drive lane change or
direction prediction, can be made based on the state of the indicator light
of the vehicle. If such a detection has been made by the perception stack
for a vehicle, it is possible to
switch the prediction to account for
this additional information. Velocity-based
assumptions are used to improve the velocity prediction
of a dynamic object. All vehicles on the road are
affected by road geometry. Thus, it is useful
to assume that as a vehicle approaches a turn
with significant curvature, the vehicle is likely
to slow down to avoid exceeding its lateral
acceleration limits. Finally, velocity prediction
can be greatly enhanced if we also consider
a regulatory elements, which the dynamic object
may encounter. For example, if there
is a stop sign at a close distance in front
of a dynamic object, it is safe to assume
that the vehicle will execute a decelerate
to stop maneuver, resulting in a lower
velocity over time. Well this is not a complete set of all assumptions that can be made to improve motion
prediction using HD road maps, they are sufficient to
illustrate the diversity of contextual
information available to improve our predictions. Further, it is important
to understand that the more constraints
or assumptions that are added to a prediction model, the less generalizable it can be to all traffic scenarios. In fact, by the end
of this lesson, we will see cases where even these generic assumptions can be overly constraining. Let's now incorporate each of these map-based assumptions into our motion prediction methods. For roadways with
natural curvature, we make the assumption
that a vehicle which is on a drive lane will likely follow that drive lane
through the curve. Our motion predictions can
be updated then by using the center line of the mainland map as the
predicted path of the vehicle, instead of the straight line path generated by constant
velocity predictions. Recall the lane that
map definition from module two of this course
which provides left, and right lane boundaries
for every lane on the road from which there can be a center line to construct it. The center line of a lane lit is defined as a set of points making up a polyline that is equally spaced from both lane boundaries. While minor deviations from the exact center line
can be expected, the center line can act as a good motion prediction
approximation. This is a major step forward over constant velocity predictions on any roadway with curvature. However, by restricting
path predictions to the center line of
any given lane lit, will result in two major issues. The first is that
during normal driving, drivers routinely change lanes. So as mentioned earlier, such maneuver may be predicted based on indicator
light perception. Although not all lean changes by human drivers are preceded
by an indication. The second problem that arises is that it is regularly the case, that there is more than one
center line to choose from. Such as in the case
of an intersection. For example, at
this simple T junction, it is possible for the vehicle to turn either left or right. This leads us to
the need to consider multiple hypotheses based on likely behaviors of the
other agents in the scene. Again, we have
two options: we can identify the most likely
behavior using objects state, appearance, and
track information, and then construct a prediction based on the most
likely behavior, or we can construct
a prediction for the most likely behaviors
and associate a probability that
the agents will follow a particular path based on the state appearance
and track information. The second approach is a slight generalization
of the first. So we will focus
our attention on it. We refer to this as
multi hypothesis prediction. In the case of multi-hypothesis
prediction approaches, each nominal behavior
of a vehicle based on the full range
of possibilities available to it at its current location in
the HD road map is considered. For the three-way
intersection example, we can include three
possibilities: turn left, turn right, or stay stationary. Based on corroborating evidence such as indicators signals, position to the left or
right of the center line, and the state of the vehicle
at the intersection. It is possible to evaluate each of the three
hypotheses in terms of the likelihood the agent will execute each of them within
the prediction horizon. These probabilities can be
hard to quantify exactly. So can either be learned
from training data of many vehicles proceeding through similar intersections, or can be engineered and refined
from real-world testing. Such approaches
traditionally provide more ambiguous information
to the behavior planner, requiring this next stage
of the planning process, to consider multiple scenarios
simultaneously, and to handle the probabilistic
representation of belief. However, if handled correctly, this approach can also
be significantly safer, enabling defensive
driving strategies, and rapid re-planning if probabilities shift based
on new information. This approach also has
an advantage of being able to adapt to
human-based driving errors. Such as forgetting to
signal when changing lanes. Now that we understand how
a road map can be used to improve the positional component of the predicted trajectories, let us now dive into
the velocity component. The first improvement
in this area is based on the known road
geometry or curvature, and the prediction of how other vehicles will react to it. All vehicles no matter
their making model, will reduce their velocity
as they enter sharp curves or execute turns. We can use an expected
maximum lateral acceleration, usually in the range of 0.5 to one meter
per second squared, to improve velocity
estimation along curves. The second and more significant improvement is to incorporate regulatory elements to
improve velocity estimation. Given the anticipated path
of the vehicle, any roadway elements
such as stop signs, yield signs, speed limit changes
or traffic lights, can all inform the
velocity prediction. In the case of traffic lights the lights state
is also required. In each case
a stop location can be predicted based on
the regulatory element line, as defined in the road map. Then a smooth deceleration
can be applied to the vehicle velocity
prediction along its path. In fact, given a HD road map, it is possible to
preprocess the map for nominal trajectories
along each roadway, and to define lanelet specific
multi-hypothesis priors, based on nominal
driving behavior. This serves both as guidance for the ego vehicle in planning its behaviors and trajectories, and also in terms of refining the motion predictions
for other agents. Of course obstructions in the lane ahead of
a vehicle precedence of arrival information
at intersections and lead vehicles in the lane, can all be integrated to improve predictions
for other vehicles. Given the complexity of making decisions for
a single self-driving car, there is a limit to
how many variables and how much depth of information
in logic can be used, to improve motion prediction. There is also a limit to
how much we can rely on assumptions about expected
dynamic object behavior, to predict future actions. Dynamic objects do not
always behave according to the nominal behaviors
expected of the drivers. They do not exactly
follow the center line, do not drive at the speed limit, accelerate and decelerate at
different rates for example. Further, they may
react to information not yet available to
the prediction system, such as a potholes in the road
ahead or a bouncing ball. They may simply not observe a regulatory element as occurs when a vehicle accidentally
runs a red light. All these variations must be
accounted for which can be done to some extent with
the multi-hypothesis approach. The best approach is
therefore to track the evolution of beliefs
over the set of hypotheses, and to update based
on evidence from the perception stack
at every time step. There is a great deal of complexity embedded
in these methods, and we encourage you to explore some of
the challenging issues associated with motion prediction
for self-driving cars, by digging into the references included in the
supplementary materials. This concludes our discussion
of motion prediction. In today's lesson, we have described a set of assumptions
for map-aware algorithms, to improve motion prediction
of vehicles on drive lanes, defined position and
velocity-based methods to improve motion prediction,
described multi-hypothesis prediction as a way to maintain multiple beliefs about
another vehicles future actions, and finally identified
some of the issues with exclusively relying on
map-aware motion prediction. I hope you will join
us next time where we will see how to use
our predicted paths, to calculate a time to collision, between pairs of dynamic
objects. See you there.