I see that the long-term benefits for autonomous driving
is first off safety. I hear of people who've been driving late at night
and find that they've seen crashes or you drive
home and everything's congested because someone maybe
fell asleep at the wheel, or they just bumped
the person in front of them and if we can get to a point a society with autonomous vehicles as
every vehicle out there, we shouldn't have anymore crashes. We should be able to
drive from point A to point B and be very safe about it, and on top of that, hopefully congestion goes down. You should have less people
on the road because you have these cars that
they'll talk to each other and everyone's
driving the same speed, because there's no switching lanes constantly to get the faster lane, which is what causes congestion a lot on top of construction
and everything else. On top of that, it also adds mobility for people who maybe
can't drive themselves. Maybe they aren't able to get
a license or in our city, it's just not practical to own a car. It makes way more sense
to take the bus or an autonomous vehicle
at some point, where you can get to point A to
point B without having to go the random route which a bus
would have to take you. So even before our code gets
deployed onto the vehicle, we go through multiple stages
of checking and making sure that it's functioning
in the way that we expect. So for example, we
rerun it in simulation, we run it against education
set we've seen before, and finally when we deploy
it on the vehicles, we run it on our private test tracks before we take it
out into the public. To ensure the safety of the vehicles
that we have on the road, we have multiple stages of
testing that we go through before we actually deploy these software
features on the vehicle. So, we test our code rigorously, the first in simulation and then against edge cases that
we might have seen before. Then once we actually deploy
the code onto the vehicles, we test these vehicles on our private test tracks before we
take them out onto public roads. One of the main advantages of
having an autonomous vehicles is that there is safety, right. So, the statistic that
gets thrown around quite a bit is that 94 percent of crashes are caused by human error and that's a huge margin for improvement that
autonomous vehicles offers us. Guaranteeing safety across all of the different scenarios open to us on the road is definitely
one of the major challenges. But fortunately, we have ways of
figuring that out whether it's through simulation or
miles accumulation through real-world testing
and computer testing. This topic often comes up in that, obviously there's
different feasibility between daytime and nighttime. Fortunately, we have a variety of sensor modality modes that
really well augment each other. For example, radar and lidar can
see perfectly well at night. So, we have through the use of multiple different
sensor technologies, being able to create a safe comprehensive perception of our world around
us even at nighttime. We definitely take testing
and safety very seriously. A live testing start cell in
computer simulation for example, to make sure that everything is up to par and the live real-world
testing starts out with human drivers at the wheel
who are able to take over at any time to guarantee the safety
if anything were to go wrong. Going forward, we do this and more and more as we accumulate
more miles more experience, we learn more and more
from the datasets that we collect to further
refine our systems. Many of us would have
known family members or people who've had an accident
whilst driving a car. That's a bad thing but
after that accident, your neighbor doesn't
necessarily get a better driver. Doesn't become a better driver. But with driverless cars
in 20 years time, I'll be able to get into driverless
cars that have the benefit of all the miles the other
driverless cars have ever driven, and we exactly don't
have that with humans. So, it's a really
compelling argument for these machines to share
their data as well and to share their experience of driving in every way that as humans
we don't do it as a lonely experience
that we have all of our 18-year-old repeat and
starting is no great drivers. So that's insane. So, there's
so many reasons why we want to fix transports in cities
and when you're in a plane and you look
down out of a window, look how much of the infrastructure
that we have built on our nations is because
we want to move stuff.