Hi everyone and welcome to the first lesson of week three. In this module,
we'll be discussing the mission planning problem in autonomous driving
and how to solve it. If you recall from Module 1, the autonomous driving mission is the highest level portion of our motion planning task
and it's crucial for navigating the autonomous
car to its destination. In this video, we'll introduce
the mathematical concept of a graph and how it can be
used in our mission planner. In addition, we will discuss
how a graph can be used to represent the road network that we are required to
navigate through. Finally, we'll discuss the Breadth-First Search
algorithm and how it can be applied to mission planning.
Let's get started. First, let's recall
the autonomous driving mission. The objective of the autonomous driving mission is to find the optimal path for the eagle vehicle from
its current position to a given destination by navigating the road network while
abstracting away the lower-level details
like the rules of the road and other agents present in the driving scenario. In this module, we will think
of optimality in terms of the amount of time or distance it takes for the car to
reach its destination. For autonomous driving,
mission planning is considered the highest
level planning problem. This is because
the spatial planning scale of the mission planner is
on the order of kilometers and the mission planner
doesn't focus on low-level planning
constraints such as obstacles or dynamics. Instead, the mission
planner will focus on aspects of the road
network when planning, such as speed limits
and road lengths, traffic flow rates
and road closures. Based on these constraints
posed to us by the map, the mission planner needs to find the optimal path to
our required destination. One thing to note about the road network is
that it is highly structured which is
something we can exploit in our planning process
to simplify the problem. By exploiting the structure, we can efficiently find
the optimal path to our destination based
on the map given to us. To do this, we will need to use a mathematical structure
known as a graph, which we've overlaid onto
our road network here. So what is a graph? A graph is a discrete structure composed of a set of
vertices denoted as V and a set of edges denoted as E. For the mission planner, each vertex in V will correspond to a given
point on the road network, and each edge E
will correspond to the road segment that connects any two points in
the road network. In this sense, a sequence of contiguous edges in the graph corresponds to a path through the road network from
one point to another. An example of a
graph is shown here. For now, we will assume each road segment
is of equal length, so the edges of this
graph are all unweighted. However, in future lessons, we will relax this restriction. To generate a graph such as this, the road network needs to
be discreetly sampled, which will give us
the vertices of our graph. The edges will then be defined by the
segments of the road that connect each sample point according to the rules
of the road. Note that in general, just because point A is adjacent to point B
using a road segment, it does not mean
that point A can be reached from point B from
that same road segment. This is because in
many cases there is only one direction that a road segment can be
legally traversed. In this sense, the edges
of our graph are directed in that the edge is only
traversable in one direction. We've denoted this
by using arrows for our edges in the graph to
display their directionality. Now that we have
are directed graph, how do we find an optimal path
to our destination? First, we locate the vertices
in the graph that correspond to our current eagle
vehicle position which we will denote as S and our desired destination
which we will denote as t. These two vertices are shown on the graph here. Once we have these two vertices, we can use an efficient
graph search algorithm to find the optimal or shortest
path to our destination. Since our graph formulation
is currently unweighted, a good candidate algorithm is the Breadth-First Search or BFS. At a high level,
BFS can be thought of as iterating through all of the vertices in the graph but doing so in a manner such that all adjacent vertices
are evaluated first before proceeding
deeper into the graph. In this sense, the graph
search proceeds like a moving wavefront through
the graph or breadth-first. Let's walk through the steps
of the BFS algorithm. We construct three data
structures to aid in our search and open queue of vertices still to be assessed, a closed set of vertices that have been assessed by
the search algorithm and a dictionary of predecessors which store
the results of the search. A queue is a first-in-first-out
data structure, such that the first
vertex pushed or added to the queue is the first one popped off or returned
from the queue. A dictionary is
an unordered set of key-value pairs and for
each node in the closed set, stores a predecessor vertex that will identify momentarily. The algorithm starts
by adding our start vertex to the open queue. Then, while the open queue
contains vertices, we take the first element from the open queue and check if
it is the goal location. If so, we found
our shortest path. If not, we then add
all adjacent vertices not already in the open queue or closed set to the open queue. This prevents us from getting stuck in cycles during
the graph search. Note that by adjacent, we mean all vertices that can be reached from
the current vertex. Because we use a queue
to store open vertices, we ensure that
all adjacent vertices at the current depth in the search are processed before proceeding
deeper into the graph. So all vertices that are one step away from
the start vertex will be processed before moving on to vertices that
are two steps away. As a vertex is added
to the open queue, we store its preceding vertex in the predecessor dictionary. This will help us reconstruct the optimal path once
the goal is found. Finally, we add
the currently active vertex to the closed set and return to the next element of
the open queue to process. Because of the breadth-first
nature of the BFS algorithm, by the time we reach
the goal vertex, we have processed all possible
predecessor vertices of the golden vertex
that are closer to the start vertex
then the goal vertex. This means that when we
reach the goal vertex, we have found the
shortest path to the goal vertex and we can
terminate the algorithm. To solidify our understanding
of this algorithm, let's work through
a concrete example. Suppose our mission
planner needs to find the optimal path
from point s to our destination t
through the set of vertices in our graph
which are now labeled, the first step would be
to process the origin s and add all
adjacent vertices to our queue and set
their predecessors to s. The outgoing edges that lead to the adjacent vertices
are highlighted in blue. Once we've added
these to our queue, we then add s to our closed list. Next, we pop off vertex a. The outgoing edges of
a lead to d and b, but b is already in
our queue, thus, we only add d to the queue and
mark a as its predecessor. We've highlighted
this duplicate path to be in red to show that we do not
add b to the queue twice. We've now processed
all adjacent edges from a and move it
to the closed set. We repeat the same process for b which adds E to
the queue with b as its predecessor and c which has no new adjacent vertices so does not add vertices
to the open queue. Next, we process
d from the queue, which only adds t
to the queue with d as its predecessor since
e has already been added. When e is popped off, it doesn't add c or d to
the queue because both of these vertices have already been processed and are present
in the closed set. Finally, we pop off
t from the queue. This is our goal vertex. So we now reconstruct the path
from s to t by following the chain of predecessors from t back to s. Once this is done, we've found the optimal path
to our destination, which is highlighted in green. The sequence of edges corresponding to
our optimal path in the graph can be turned into a root over the road
network using our map, which can then be used to govern more detailed motion planning in the subsequent layers of
our planning hierarchy. Before we wrap up this video, we should note that there is also the highly related
Depth-First Search algorithm among many others. Depth-First Search
uses a last-in, first-out stack instead of
a queue for the open set. This change means that the most recently added vertex is evaluated instead of the oldest. The result is a search that quickly moves deeper in the graph and then eventually backtracks to vertices added much earlier. From this video, you should have an understanding of the mission
planning problem and how we construct
and use graphs as a map level representation
of our planning domain. In addition, you should now
be comfortable with using Breadth-First Search to navigate an unweighted graph to find the shortest path to
a given destination. In our next lesson, we're going to make the
graph more complex by adding different weights
to the edges in our graph, to better reflect
the different costs for using different road
segments and we'll introduce Dykstra's
algorithm a method for handling this new complexity.
See you next time.