Welcome. In this lesson, we will build on Dijkstra's
algorithm by introducing a new potentially faster approach that we can use for our
mission planning problem. To do this, we'll leverage
heuristics in our search, which will help us refine the search process to
make it more efficient. By the end of this video, you should understand the role of heuristics in graph search and identify which heuristics are valid for our mission planning
problem and which are not. You should also be
able to leverage heuristics in
our graph search problem, by using the A* search algorithm, and recognize how
to apply A* search to variance of the
mission planning problem we've discussed so far. So let's get started. If you recall from
the last lesson we introduced Dijkstra's
algorithm to help us tackle the
mission planning problem for the case of
a weighted graph edges, which was more realistic than our previous unweighted
graph instance because it let us take into account variable distances across
different road segments. However, Dijkstra's
algorithm required us to search almost all of the edges
present in the graph, even though only a
few of them were actually useful for
constructing the optimal path. Well, this wasn't a problem
for our small example graph. It will cause issues
when we scale our problem to
more realistic proportions, such as a full road
network for a city. To improve our
efficiency in practice, we can instead rely on
a search heuristic by using the A* algorithm to find our destination rather
than Dijkstra's. What is a search heuristic? In this context, a search
heuristic is an estimate of the remaining cost to reach the destination vertex from any given vertex in the graph. Of course, any heuristic
we use won't be exact as that would require knowing the answer to
our search problem already. Instead, we rely on
the structure of the problem instance to develop a reasonable estimate
that is fast to compute. In our case, the vertices in the graph correspond
to points in space, with the edges corresponding to segments of a road which have a weight corresponding to the length of those
road segments. Therefore a useful estimate
on the cost or length between any two vertices is the straight line or Euclidean
distance between them, as shown here by HOV, for a given vertex v
and goal t. Therefore, for any vertex we
encounter in our search, our estimate for
the remaining cost to the goal vertex will just be the Euclidean distance between that vertex and the goal. Note that this estimate is always an underestimate of the true
distance to reach the goal, since the shortest path between any two points is
a straight line. This is an important
requirement for A* search, and heuristics that satisfy this requirement are called
admissible heuristics. As an example calculation, suppose we have a start
vertex a and a goal vertex c. Vertex a
corresponds to the 0.0, and vertex b corresponds to 2.0. Vertex c in this case
corresponds to 2.2. Therefore, the Euclidean distance between a and c is 2.828, which is our heuristic estimate
of the cost to the goal. Note that the edge cost between any two adjacent vertices is not equal to the distance
between those vertices. This is because road segments are not straight line paths, and in general
the road segment length will be influenced by
the shape of the road. Because of the graphs simplicity, we can see that the actual cost of the path from a to c is 4.6, by summing up
the ab and bc edge costs. As expected, our heuristic is an underestimate
of the true cost. Let's use this new heuristic to better inform
our graph search. Here, we have the pseudocode
for the A* algorithm. It's largely the same as
Dijkstra's algorithm, but it has a few key differences, which we've highlighted in blue. Let's look more closely
at the specific changes. Recall that in
Dijkstra's algorithm, we push our open vertices onto a min heap along with their accumulated
cost from the origin. The main heap then sorts the open vertices by their
associated accumulated cost. The min difference between
Dijkstra's algorithm and A* is that instead of
using the accumulated cost, we use the accumulated
cost plus hv, the heuristic estimated
remaining cost to the goal vertex as the value
we push onto the min heap. The min heap then
essentially sorts the open vertices by the estimated total
cost to the goal. In this sense, A* biases the search towards
vertices that are likely to be part of the optimal path according
to our search heuristic. Since we are storing a heuristic based total cost
and the min-heap, we also need to keep track of the true cost of
each vertex as well, which we store in
the cost structure. An interesting thing to note is that if we take
our heuristic to be zero for all vertices which is still
an admissible heuristic, we then end up with
Dijkstra's algorithm. As before with
Dijkstra's algorithm, we will add the origin
to the min heap, then pop each vertex
off of the heap and add all adjacent
vertices to the heap, until we process the goal vertex. Let's apply the A* algorithm
to our example graph. Here we have
our road network graph from the previous lessons, except now we've added the actual position
of each vertex. Note that the figure
is not to scale and the vertices
are nicely spaced to make the figure
more legible instead of being depicted
in Euclidean space. However, you can see that
the edge length between any two adjacent vertices are at least as long as
their Euclidean distance. As always, the first vertex we add to the min heap
is the origin s. There is zero accumulated cost and the Euclidean
distance between s and t, which is a lower bound on our shortest path
distance is 4.472. So we add vertex s
with cost 4.472. Next, we process the first node s and add the adjacent vertices a, b, and c to the min heap. Remember that we need to
add the accumulated cost to the heuristic cost to the goal when adding each vertex
to the min heap. Thus for vertex a, we have a cost of 5 plus 3 is 8. For vertex b, we have
a cost of 7 plus 2 is nine, and for vertex c we
have a cost of 2 plus the square root of
9 plus 4 is 5.6. The order of the vertices
in the min heap is now cab. We also add s as the predecessor
to the vertices a, b, and c and then add
s to the closed set. The next vertex to process is c, which only connects to vertex e. The cost of e works out to 11.4. So we now have
a vertex order abe. We then assign e's predecessor to be c and add c to the closed set. Next, we pop a off of the min
heap and we see that it has outgoing edges to vertex b
and d. The cost to b eight, which is lower than the
original estimated cost for b. So we update its cost
in a min heap and change its predecessor
from s to a. To show we've updated its cost, we've highlighted
the edge in purple. We also add vertex d to
the min heap with cost of seven. The new heap ordering
is thus dbe. We then assign a to
be the predecessor of d and add a to the closed set. The process continues with d, which has outgoing edges to e and t. The estimated cost
of e is 15.4. Since this is higher than e's current cost in the min heap, we ignore this new path to e and as such we
mark this edge and red. The estimated cost of t is seven. Since it is the goal node it has zero heuristic cost to goal. After doing this,
the new min heap ordering is t b e. We set the predecessor of t to be d and add a to the closed set. Finally, we process the vertex t which is the goal
vertex. So we are done. The final shortest path from s to t is shown on this graph here, and we are able to avoid
processing both b and d, thanks to the A* approach. Unfortunately, this
example graph is quite small in order to demonstrate how
the algorithm works. However, as we scale the problem to
much larger graph inputs, we will see that the heuristic used in the A* algorithm will cause it to explore far fewer vertices than
the Dijkstra's algorithm. Asymptotically, A* will never
do worse than Dijkstra's, and in practice A* will result in a much faster
mission planning process. Now, in our examples, we've simplified the
mission planning problems such that the edge weights or the distance along
road segments in the map. However, if we were to include other factors such as
traffic, speed limits, or weather into our
mission planning problem, the road distance along
the path would be too simplistic to capture
the scope of the problem. To remedy this, we
can instead take the estimated time to cross the road segment as
our edge weights, and this takes all of the mentioned factors
into consideration. However, this renders our Euclidean distance
metric useless, as it no longer captures the true cost to the goal
in terms of time. To remedy this, we can use a lower bound estimate of
the time to the goal point as a Euclidean
distance divided by the maximum speed allowed
across all road segments. The car should not
exceed the speed limit. So even in ideal traffic
and weather conditions, as well as a straight
line path to the goal, this is the absolute
shortest amount of time the car can
travel to that goal. This means it is a lower bound on the true cost to
the goal at all times, and as such it is
an admissible heuristic. For example, here we have set our maximum speed to be
a 100 kilometers per hour, with the edge weights
corresponding to the number of seconds it takes
to traverse a path. After computing our heuristic
value of a 101.8 seconds, we can see that it
is much lower than the true path length from a to c, which is a 165.6 seconds. This is because in general, this heuristic is a
poor lower bound as the segments will often take
much longer to traverse, than the computed minimum. Poor lower bounds can degrade the ability
of our heuristic to guide our search to the goal
for more complex problems, as compared to
problem instances that were strictly focused
on minimizing distance. More advanced methods
are available which pre-compute additional
values and consider modified heuristic definitions
that allow large networks with time-based travel estimates to be searched efficiently. We've included some links in
the supplemental material, if you're interested
in learning more. In this video, we
introduced the concept of the Euclidean heuristic
and showed that it was an admissible heuristic for
our motion planning problem. We then used it in
our implementation of A* search for
a motion planning problem. We also discussed how to modify the mission planning problem
we've discussed so far, to include travel times
instead of road lengths, and also how to modify our search heuristic to be
admissible in this situation. Congratulations. You've reached the end of this module on mission planning. In this module, you
learned to define the mission planning problem as a shortest path search
over a directed graph, and you applied Dijkstra's and A* algorithms to find
the shortest path efficiently. In the next module, you'll learn about dynamic object interactions and how these relate to the second stage of our motion planning hierarchy, the behavioral planner.
See you there.