[MUSIC] In the previous video, we saw how
linearization error can cause the EKF to produce state estimates that are very
different from the true value of the state and covariances that don't accurately
capture the uncertainty in the state. This can be a big problem
when we're relying on the EKF in safety critical applications
like self-driving cars. In this lesson, you'll learn about the unscented common
filter, which is an alternative approach to non-linear common filtering that
relies on something called the unscented transform to pass probability
distributions through nonlinear functions. As we'll see, the unscented transform
gives us much higher accuracy than analytical EKF
style linearization for a similar amount of computation, and
without needing to compute any Jacobians. So by the end of this video you'll be
able to use the unscented transform to pass a probability distribution through
a nonlinear function, describe how the Unscented Kalman Filter or UKF uses
the unscented transform in the prediction and correction steps, and explain
the advantages of the UKF over the EKF as well as apply the UKF to a simple
nonlinear tracking problem. The intuition behind the unscented
transform is simple. It's typically much easier to
approximate a probability distribution than it is to approximate
an arbitrary nonlinear function. Let's think about a simple example
where a 1D Gaussian distribution like the one on the left gets
transformed through nonlinear function into a more complicated 1D distribution
like the one on the right. We already know the mean and the standard
deviation of the input Gaussian and we want to figure out the mean and
standard deviation of the output distribution using this information and
the nonlinear function. The unscented transform
gives us a way to do this. The basic idea in the unscented
transform has three steps. First, we choose a set of sample
points from our input distribution. Now these aren't random samples,
they're deterministic samples chosen to be a certain number of
standard deviations away from the mean. For this reason,
these samples are called sigma points, and the unscented transform is sometimes
called the sigma point transform. Once we have our set of carefully
chosen sigma points, the second and easiest step is to pass each sigma
point through our nonlinear function, producing a new set of sigma points
belonging to the output distribution. Finally, we can compute the sample mean
and covariance of the output sigma points with some carefully chosen weights, and
these will give us a good approximation of the mean and covariance of
the true output distribution. Now that you've seen the basic
idea of the unscented transform, let's look at each of
these steps in detail. The first thing you might be wondering
is how many sigma points do we need and which points are, in fact, sigma points? In general, for
an n dimensional probability distribution, we need 2n+1 sigma points,
one for the mean and the rest symmetrically
distributed about the mean. The diagrams in the left show the sigma
points for one dimensional and two dimensional examples. In 1D we need three sigma points and
in 2D we need five. The first step in determining where the
sigma point should be is taking something called the Cholesky decomposition
of the covariance matrix associated with the input distribution. A Cholesky decomposition is basically
a square root operation that operates on symmetric positive definite matrices,
such as covariance matrices. In fact,
if the input PDF is one dimensional the Cholesky decomposition really is
just the square root of the variants, which is also known as
the standard deviation. We won't go into the details of how to
compute a Cholesky decomposition but you can use the chole function in MATLAB
or the Cholesky function in NumPy. Once we've decomposed
the covariance matrix, we can choose our first sigma point to
be the mean of the distribution and the remainder to be the mean plus or
minus some factor times each column of the matrix L that
we got from the cholesky decomposition. The value of N here again
is a number of dimensions of the probability distribution. The parameter capa is a tuning parameter
that you're free to set yourself. For Gaussian distributions,
which is what we'll be working with, setting N plus capa equal
to 3 is a good choice. Okay, so
now we have our set of sigma points. The next step is straightforward. Just pass each of the sigma points
through our nonlinear function to get a new set of
transformed sigma points. Now all that's left is to recombine
the transformed sigma points to find our output mean and
output covariance. We do this using the standard formulas for
the sample means and covariance that you would have seen in
your introductory statistics courses. The trick is that each of the points
gets a specific weight in the mean and covariance calculations, and that weight
depends on the parameter kappa and the dimension of the input distribution N. And that's really all there is to it. To see the unscented transform in action,
lets come back to our example of the previous video where we nonlinearly
transformed a uniform distribution in polar coordinates into Cartesian
coordinates, and let's see how the unscented transform compares to
the analytical linearization approach. So here, again, we have the true mean and covariance
of the two distributions in green. Now let's apply the unscented transform. The dimension of our input
distribution is two, so we need five sigma points which
we've shown as orange stars. Passing these sigma points through our
nonlinear function puts them here. And the mean and covariance we compute
from the transformed sigma points look like this shown in orange. Note that our estimate for
the mean using the unscented transform is almost exactly the same as the true
nonlinear mean and our estimate for the covariance almost exactly
matches the true covariance. Compare that to the analytically
linearized transform mean and covariance in red, which are both very different
from the true mean and true covariance. It's easy to see from this example that
the unscented transform gives us a much better approximation of the output PDF
without requiring much more work than the analytical linearization approach. Now that we've seen how the unscented
transform works, we can easily use it in our Kalman Filtering
framework to work with nonlinear models. This variant of the common filter is
called the Unscented Kalman Filter or UKF. You may also hear it called
the sigma point common filter. The main idea of the UKF is that instead
of approximating the system equations by linearizing them like the EKF does, we use the unscented transform to
approximate the PDFs directly. Let's look at the prediction
step of the UKF. To propagate the state and covariance
through the motion model from time k-1 to time k, we apply the unscented transform
using the current best guess for the mean and covariance of the state. First, we decompose the estimated state
covariance from time k- 1, then we calculate our sigma points centered around
the estimated means state from time k- 1. Second, we propagate our sigma points
through our nonlinear motion model to get a new set of sigma points for
the predicted state at time k. And finally,
we calculate the predicted mean and covariance for the state at time K. At this point it's
important to account for the process noise by adding its covariance
to the covariance of the transformed sigma points to get the final
predicted covariance. This equation looks a bit different if
the process noise is not additive, but most of the time you will be dealing
with additive noise in your models unless there is a good reason not to. For the correction step,
we're going to follow a similar procedure, this time with a non-linear
measurement model. First, we will need to
redraw our sigma points using the predicted covariance matrix. We need to do this a second time because
we added process noise at the end of the last step, and this will modify
the positions of some of the sigma points. Next, we're going to plug
these new sigma points one by one into our nonlinear measurement model
to get another set of sigma points for the predicted measurements, then we
can estimate the mean and covariance of the predicted measurements using
the sample mean and covariance formulas. Again, take note that we’re adding in
the measurement noise covariance to get the final covariance of
the predicted measurements, and also remember that this formula
only applies to additive noise. To compute the common gain,
we’re also going to need the cross covariance between the predicted state and
the predicted measurements, which tells us how the measurements
are correlated with the state. You can calculate this using the standard
formula for the cross covariance and using the same weights as before. Then all that's left is to use the Kalman
gain to optimally correct the mean and covariance of the predicted state. And that's it! The UKF follows the same prediction
correction pattern as the EKF, but we've just replaced the analytical linearization
step with the unscented transform. Let's try applying the UKF to
the same example driving scenario we worked through with the EKF. We're again trying to track the position
and velocity of a moving car that we're controlling by pressing
on the gas pedal or the brake. The car has a sensor on board that
measures the angle between a distant landmark and the horizon. The motion model is linear but
the measurement model is nonlinear. Try using the data given here to estimate
the position of the vehicle at time one, using the UKF. Here is the Cholesky decomposition
of the initial covariance matrix and the five sigma points we'll use to
represent the state and its covariance. And here is the result of the prediction
step for the mean of the state. And finally, the predicted covariance. Notice that the predicted mean and
covariance are identical to what we would've found with the linear common
filter and the extended common filter. This is because the motion
model actually is linear. For the correction step,
these are the sigma points for the predicted measurements and the mean
and covariance of that distribution. And finally, the cross covariance,
common gain, and our final answer for
the position of the vehicle at time k = 1. To summarize this video, we looked at the
Unscented Kalman Filter or UKF, which uses the unscented transform to adapt
the Kalman filter to nonlinear systems. As we saw, the unscented transform works
by passing a small set of carefully chosen samples through a nonlinear system,
and computing the mean and covariance of the outputs, and it often
does a much better job of approximating the output distribution than the local
analytical linearization technique used by the EKF for
similar computational cost. Let's recap what we
learned in this module. We started off by discussing
the linear Kalman filter, which is a form of recursive
least squares estimation that allows us to combine
information from a motion model with information from sensor measurements
to estimate the vehicle state. The Kalman filter follows
a prediction correction architecture. The motion model is used to make
predictions of the state, and the measurements are used to make
corrections to those predictions. We also saw that the Kalman filter is the
best linear unbiased estimator, or BLUE. That is, the Kalman filter is
the best unbiased estimator that uses only a linear
combination of measurements. But, of course, linear systems
don't really exist in reality, so we needed to develop techniques for
handling nonlinear systems. [SOUND] In this module,
we looked at three different approaches to nonlinear Kalman filtering,
the Extended Kalman Filter or EKF, the error state formulation of the EKF and
the Unscented Kalman Filter or UKF. As we've discussed the main difference is
that the EKF relies on local analytical linearization to propagate PDFs through
nonlinear functions whether using the full state or
the error state formulation. In contrast, the UKF relies on the unscented
transform to handle nonlinear functions. For most systems that
are only mildly nonlinear, the EKF will give accurate results,
but the UKF will be more accurate in cases where linearization error
is a problem for the EKF. The error state Kalman filter
performs somewhere in-between. One of the biggest advantages of the UKF
over any EKF formulation is that the UKF doesn't require you to compute any
derivatives of your non-linear models, which can be prone to human error or
numerical instability. Finally, in terms of speed,
the EKF wins out by a small margin for typical estimation problems,
but in general, the EKF and the UKF require very similar
amounts of computation. Because of its accuracy and simplicity, we recommend using the UKF over the EKF
whenever possible in your projects. If you must use the EKF, our advice is
to use the error state formulation, be wary of linearization error, and take extra care to ensure your Jacobians
are correct, a good mantra to repeat. Now that you've learned about the basic
tools we need for state estimation, we can start thinking about the types of sensors
we might find on a self-driving car and how we can use them to
localize the vehicle. In the next module,
we'll discuss one common pair of sensors, the inertial measurement unit or IMU and the global navigation satellite system,
or GNSS. [MUSIC]