Hi everyone. I'd like
to congratulate you on completing the course
for final project. It combined many of the concepts we covered throughout the course, and the other courses
in this specialization. So you should be proud
of your efforts to accomplish this
challenging final task. In this video we
will be discussing our solution to
the final project, which you can use to compare your code to in order
to help you with sections of the project
you struggled with or we're unsure if
your answer was correct. In particular for
our solution there were four main tasks to
complete in order to enable all of the functionality required for our three-stage
scenario and Carla. These were past generation, path collision checking, velocity profile generation,
and behavior planning. Let's take a look at
each of these steps. The first task you had to
complete was path generation. For this assignment, we
had given you all of the required code to optimize
a spiral to a given point. So all you needed to
add was to extract the goal points from the way points sequence you were given. We did this by iterating
through the way points and finding the closest
one to the ego vehicle, and then progressing through way points until we
arrived at a way point that was at least a look
ahead distance away from us. The look ahead distance
represents how far ahead of the vehicle we are
planning during any cycle. Once this goal point is selected, we laterally offset
additional goal points from the selected way point to
generate a goal state set. We do this to give the car multiple options to select from, which will allow it
to avoid obstacles. The lateral spacing
is 90 degrees rotated away from the heading of the road at the target way point. This ensures that
our planned path set conforms to
the structure of the road. We then have to rotate and
translate these points from the global frame to
the ego vehicles frame, such that the ego vehicle is at the origin with zero heading. Once this is done, we can pass these goal points
to the spiral optimizer which will
then compute the path that we can use in
our future planning steps. Once we have our path set, the next step to perform is collision checking
and path selection. To compute the best feasible
and collision-free path for our ego vehicle to follow. The way we performed
collision checking was to use the circle based method we
introduced in Module Four. In particular, we overlaid
circles on top of the vehicle location at
each point along the path. This generates a set of
circles which gives us a conservative approximation
of the ego vehicle swath. We then checked if each of
the obstacle points was located within any of
the circles along the path. If any of the points did
fall within the circles, then this path was labeled
as having a collision. We then repeated this process for each of the paths removing all of those that collided with obstacles from future
consideration. Once our collision check
was complete, we then selected
the collision-free path whose end-point was closest to the line center line
as our best path. We select this because
it allows us to track the global way points
along the center of the lane even if
we had to veer off course temporarily due to
an obstacle along our path. This choice does lead us to cut as close as possible
to obstacles. So we had to be careful to ensure our collision checks were
conservative with some buffer. Once we have a suitable
path selected, we need to generate
a velocity profile for it. We are given a reference velocity depending on the behavior
we are trying to execute. If we are decelerating to
a stop or staying stopped, our target velocity
should be zero. Otherwise, it should
be the speed limit. However, we need to take leading vehicles
into consideration. Because if a leading vehicle is moving more slowly
than us we may hit it. To handle this, we set our target velocity to be the minimum of
the reference velocity, and the lead vehicle speed. We also need to make sure that we reach the lead vehicle speed by the time we reach the
lead vehicles original location. Otherwise we risk a collision. From this information,
we can now construct a ramp trajectory from
our current velocity, to the target velocity
along our path. If there is a lead vehicle, the end-point of
the ramp profile will be the lead vehicles position
less a time gap buffer. Otherwise the end-point of the ramp profile will
be the end of the path. Finally, we must implement the behavioral planner
for our ego vehicle. The only regulatory
element we will face in this project
is a stop sign, so that will be the focus
of the behavioral planner. To handle it,
our behavioral planner will have three states. A nominal lane following state, a decelerate to stop state, and a stay stop state. During the course of
normal driving we will stay in the lane following state. Once the endpoint
of our planned path crosses the stop
line of a stop sign, we then switch from driving
normally to decelerating to a stop at the stop point
defined by that stopline. To do this, we must transition to the decelerate to stop state, and ensure our planned length provides sufficient time
to decelerate comfortably. Once we've stopped we transition to the stay stopped state to make sure the car is at
a complete stop at the stop sign for
a fixed period of time. In this case, we
choose two seconds. Once that is done, we then transition back to
the lane following state, and continue with
nominal driving. This completes the state
machine transition cycle, and allows us to
handle the presence of a stop sign along our path. Once we've completed
each of these steps, we now have a fully
functional motion planner, that can handle the scenario
presented in this project. If you struggled with
any portion of this project, try implementing
that portion as discussed in this video to see if you can
improve its performance. Of course, there are
multiple approaches defined in the course for
many aspects of this project. There is no restriction on which approach you choose to use. If you found
an alternative method that worked really well, be sure to let us
know in the forums. Now that you've completed
the course project, you should have
a strong grasp for the motion planning concepts we've covered in course four. In the final two videos, we'll close out both this course
and the specialization. Thanks for all your hard work
and we wish you the best of luck through all your future
autonomous driving projects.