Hi everyone, and welcome to the final module of course four. In this module, we'll discuss the lowest level of
our hierarchical motion planner, which is the local planner. As a reminder,
the local planner is the portion of the
hierarchical planner that executes the maneuver
requested by the behavior planner
in a collision-free, efficient, and
comfortable manner. This results in
either a trajectory, which is a sequence
of points in space at given times or a path
and velocity profile, which is a sequence of points in space with the required
velocities at each point. This plan can then be given as the reference input to the controllers that you
developed in course one. In this module, we'll build upon the introductory reactive planner we developed back in module four, such that it is able
to handle some of the nuances presence in the autonomous driving
motion planning problem. In particular, we'll move from the discrete time to
continuous time in order to produce smooth
parameterized paths that are easy to track
with our controllers. In this video, we'll introduce
the path planning problem and its associated constraints
and boundary conditions. As well, we'll discuss
parametric curves and how they are useful for representing paths
for this problem. In particular, you should understand the difference between splines and spirals in
the context of motion planning, and the advantages and
drawbacks of each. So let's get started. The first step in understanding
the path planning problem is to first understand its
most fundamental requirements. For the path planning problem, this is given
a starting position, heading, and curvature, find a path to an ending
position heading and curvature that satisfies
our kinematic constraints. In the context of
an optimization, the starting and
end values can be formulated as the boundary
conditions of the problem, and the kinematic motion of the vehicle can be formulated as continuous time constraints on the optimization variables. In this context,
the boundary conditions are the conditions
that must hold on either end point of the path for a given optimization solution
to be considered feasible. If these boundary
conditions are violated, no matter how great the path is, we haven't achieved
our core objective of actually getting to
the point we want to get to. So the path is not useful to us. These boundary conditions will
influence how we decide to set up the underlying structure of the optimization problem. Let's look at why this is. For our path planner, our only kinematic
constraint is going to be restricting the maximum
curvature along the path. In general, this is
not easy to satisfy since there are infinitely many points along
a continuous path. Instead, we will
often take samples of the curvature at
different points along the path, and constrain the curvature
of each of these points. Assuming the path is
relatively well-behaved, this will likely correspond
to the curvature of the entire path satisfying
the constraint. To simplify the representation of our optimization problem, we're going to define a path
as a parametric curve. What is a parametric curve? A parametric curve is a curve
that can be described as a set of equations
with specific parameters. These parameters often
denote path traversal, whether it will be
through arc length or just varying from zero to one. For example, here we have
a cubic spline set of parametric equations for the
x and y positions of a path. The parameter of the equations
u varies from zero to one, as we traveled from the start of the path to the end of the path. The vector valued function
r contains the x and y position at each point corresponding to a given u value. For autonomous driving,
we often but not always require the path
to be a parametric curve. Why is this? We often focus on planning
methods that optimize a given path according to boundary conditions shown here
by Beta naught and Beta f, kinematic constraints
shown here by Alpha, and an objective functional
shown here by f. Having a parametric
representation of the path make setting up the
optimization problem simpler, as we have a function we can directly give to our objective functional f. Note that
the term functional refers to mappings that takes a function as their argument and
return a real value, so it can be used to
define a cost over a space of functions or
parametrized curves. We can contrast
this parametric curve approach with the reactive planner
in module four, where we represented
the trajectory and the path with a sequence
of points in space. This is known as
a non-parametric path since the curve we followed did not have a parametric
representation. In the field of
autonomous driving, there are two common types
of path parameterizations. The first are
quintic splines which are fifth order polynomial functions of the x and y
position of the car. The second type is
the polynomial spiral, given by a polynomial
curvature function with respect to arc length. Pictured here is
a third order polynomial spiral, a cubic spiral, both of these parameterized
curves give us the means to satisfy the boundary conditions
we just discussed, and also offer us
parameters to use in objective functions to craft the paths according
to our requirements. Selecting either of
these has associated tradeoffs. So let's explore
each more deeply. First, let's discuss
the quintic spline. The quintic spline is
given by two equations, one for the
progression of x along the spline and one for y. Here we can see that
the quintic spline has 12 parameters, six for the x equation and
six for the y equation. These parameters correspond to the polynomial coefficients that form the shape of the curve. The traversal parameter u
is fairly arbitrary here. For simplicity, we take it to be in the range
of zero to one. What this means is that u equals zero corresponds to
the start of the path, and u equals one
corresponds to the end. A nice property of
the quintic spline is that for given position heading and
curvature boundary conditions, there is an immediate
closed form solution for the spline coefficients
that satisfy them. The solution is quite long
so we won't listed here, but it is still cheaper
to evaluate than generating a path using an
iterative optimization method. See the supplemental materials
for a full listing. There are also additional
degrees of freedom which can be further optimize depending
on this application. This is desirable because
it allows us to generate a feasible solution to the boundary conditions
immediately, which can be further
refined in anytime fashion. The downside with quintic splines is that it is often
hard to constrain curvature within a certain set of bounds as is often required
in autonomous driving. If we look at
the curvature equation for a parametric curve, we can see that for
our quintic splines, the curvature as a function of arc length will not in
general be a polynomial. This has the potential
to introduce cusps or even discontinuities of the curvature in the spline, which makes it difficult
to approximately satisfy curvature constraints across the entire domain of the spline. We will discuss
these curvature constraints in more detail in
our next lesson, where we set up the optimization problem for path planning. As an alternative approach, we can also employ polynomial spirals to
represent our path. These curves offer a closed form equation
for the curvature of the curve along each point
of its arc length. For autonomous driving,
it is common to select a cubic polynomial as our curvature function
of arc length. However, higher-order functions
are also acceptable. The main positive of using polynomial spirals is that
their structure is highly conducive to satisfying the approximate
curvature constraints that are often required by
the path planning problem. Since a spiral is a polynomial
function of curvature, the curvature value will
not change extremely quickly like it can in
the case of quintic splines. This means we can
constrain the curvature of only a few points
in the spiral and the spiral will
very likely satisfy the curvature constraints
across the entire curve. This is highly useful when
performing path optimization, as the number of constraints
greatly increases the computational effort
of each optimization step. The downside of using polynomial
spirals is that there is no closed form solution of the position and
heading of the spiral, unlike the case in
the quintic spline. Therefore, we must perform an iterative
optimization in order to generate a spiral that satisfies
our boundary conditions. As can be seen here, the position equations
results in Fresnel integrals, which have no closed
form solution. We therefore need to use numerical approximation
techniques to compute the final end points
of the spiral. In this module, we
will approximate these Fresnel integrals using Simpson's rule shown
here on the third line. Simpson's rule is
more accurate with fewer points than
other approximation methods, which will be useful when we setup our optimization problem. When it comes to the strengths and weaknesses of the spiral, we almost have a duality
when compared to the spline, each has a weak point
where the other is strong. The spline provides
closed form solutions based on start and
end points alone, whereas the spiral does not. The spiral ensures smooth curvature variation
along the path, while the spline does not. You will therefore need
to determine which method is appropriate depending on
your specific application. As a brief shorthand, the spline leads to
computational efficiency, while the spiral leads to easier implementation of
curvature constraints. For this module, we will focus on the polynomial spirals as we
develop our path planner, as we have a strong interest in ensuring the paths generated by our local planner can be executed smoothly and
safely by the vehicle. However, many of
the techniques described going forward can also be applied
to quintic splines. Let's summarize this lesson. We gave you an overview of
the boundary conditions and parametric curves used in autonomous driving path planning, and we introduced splines and spirals as alternative
path representations, and discuss their differences in the path planning context. In our next lesson, we'll be discussing how to
set up the path planning optimization problem
using the cubic spiral parametrization we
discussed in this lesson, as well as the constraints
and objective functions we defined earlier in this
course. We will see you there.