Hi everyone and welcome
to our final video of the seventh module on motion planning for
self-driving cars. In this lesson, we'll be
introducing a method to generate a velocity profile for a given input path generated by our
path planning algorithm. If you recall from Module one, there are many
different factors that affect velocity
profile generation. In particular, we will focus on the reference velocity provided
by the behavior planner, the velocity of dynamic
obstacles in front of us, and the velocity
required to maintain passenger comfort and
vehicle stability. By the end of this video, you should be able to construct velocity profiles
along plan paths that take into account
reference velocities from different behavior
planning situations, time to collision to a leading dynamic obstacle,
and comfort constraints. Finally, you should
be able to implement a linear ramp velocity profile as well as a trapezoidal
velocity profile. So let's get started. The first step in generating a velocity profile is determining our final
required velocity. A good initial value
for our final velocity is the reference velocity given to us by
the behavior planner. This reference velocity will
largely be influenced by the maneuver that
the behavior plan selected based on
the current driving scenario. For example, if we are stopped at an intersection and
the light is still red, the behavior planner will
issue a stopped maneuver to the local planner
which will include outputting a zero
velocity reference. If we're currently driving
straight along a given road, the reference
velocity may just be the speed limit of
that current road. We will denote this by
V ref going forward. The next input we take into consideration are
the dynamic obstacle states. In particular, we focus on the lead vehicle in front of us. The lead vehicle speed
regulates our speed, because if we exceed
the lead vehicle speed, we will eventually
collide with it. Recall that the time
to collision is a function of
our relative velocity to the lead vehicle as well
as the length of the path to the lead vehicle
given by s. Therefore, to preserve a safe time
to collision, we will take our reference
velocity to be the minimum of the lead vehicle speed and the behavior plan
or reference speed. In addition, we need
to make sure that we are below
the lead vehicle speed before we reach
their current location for this planning iteration
because otherwise, we are still at risk for
colliding with them. In general, when dealing
with dynamic obstacles, it is good to leave
space and time buffers in our calculations for safety. Therefore, if the end
of our path lies ahead of the current position
of the lead vehicle, we need to make sure that
our final velocity is reached before that point including
leaving a spatial buffer, as shown here by
the red point along the path. By the time we reach the red point in
our velocity profile, we will need to have reached
the lead vehicle speed, if it is moving slower than us. The lead vehicle will move ahead by the time we reach
the current position. At that point, we will
have reached its speed preventing us from
colliding with it. Note that we can also take lead vehicle tracking one
step further and directly ensure
a safe time to collision or separation distance
given a lead vehicle speed, but this changes
the control function to a relative distance tracking from a relative
velocity tracking, so we'll stick to the velocity based approach in this video. The final input we consider is the maximum curvature
along our planned path. Recall from our last
lesson that when we sampled the optimized path, we record the curvature
of the spiral at each point denoted by capital I. In addition, we
mentioned in Module one, that there is a maximum
lateral acceleration required to remain inside
the comfort rectangle. The lateral acceleration
as a function of the instantaneous curvature as well as the longitudinal speed
along the curve. Therefore, the curvature bounds the longitudinal
velocity that we can take while traversing our path. We can enforce this by
ensuring the velocity stays below the required limit
at each point on the path. However, if the curvature
changes rapidly, we may not be able to achieve
the required velocity while remaining within our longitudinal
acceleration bounds. We therefore also find the maximum curvature
across all points in our path and then find the associated maximum speed
for that point. Our profile must then reach this required speed by
the point in the path. We therefore define
a deceleration to the required speed at the minimum point and
an acceleration afterward. We can repeat this process for the next largest violation of the curvature
constraint and so on until the velocity profile satisfies the curvature
constraints along its length. A simpler approach that is
useful for the assessments in this course is to identify
the maximum curvature point, set the associated speed, and then simply maintain that speed until
we pass the point. Since we are continuously re-planning in
a receding horizon manner, once the high curvature
point is reached, the new velocity profiles
generated will naturally raise the speed based on the other objectives
defined earlier. In essence, we can simplify the velocity profile
generation process to the act of combining our curvature-based
maximum speed with our previous two
maximum speeds from the behavior planner
and the lead vehicle by taking the minimum of all three as the desired final velocity
of our profile. Next, we need to discuss what the shape of our velocity
profile is going to be. One possible simple option is to generate a linear ramp profile from our current velocity to our desired final velocity
that we calculated earlier. When planning our profile, we know the total arc
length of our path, denoted s, and our initial
and final speed. The first thing we
need to calculate is our required acceleration, which we can solve for directly
with our given inputs. We have to be careful to ensure that this calculated acceleration doesn't exceed
our comfort rectangle as we discussed
earlier in the course. If it does exceed
the comfort rectangle, then we will need to clamp it. If an acceleration or
deceleration is required that exceeds the comfort rectangle but is required due
to safety concerns, such as during
an emergency stop maneuver, then we can bypass this comfort rectangle
to prevent a crash. If we do clamp our acceleration, then we need to update
our final velocity accordingly using
our maximum acceleration, a max, instead of
our calculated acceleration, a. Once we have our
acceleration profile, we can then calculate
the velocity at each point along the path by looking at the arc
length to the ith point. By iterating through
the entire path and calculating the required
velocity for each point, we have completely generated
a velocity profile along our path to get to
our desired end velocity. An alternative profile is
the trapezoidal profile. It's useful when a car is
approaching a stop sign, and we want to decelerate
from our nominal speed to a lower transit speed before then decelerating again to
a stop at the stop sign. For this velocity profile, we take as our input,
our initial, and final velocities,
our desired transit velocity, and our desired deceleration. This deceleration is usually
chosen to be well within our comfort rectangle to make the profile as
smooth as possible. The first step with
this planner is to calculate the distance
we will travel during our initial deceleration to our desired transit speed. This is the arc length traveled during
the first segment of the trapezoidal profile and is given by the first
equation here for Sa. From this, we know
how much arc length along our initial path should be dedicated to our
initial deceleration. The parameters for
this initial calculation include our initial speed, vi, the transit speed, vt, and our gentle
deceleration value, a naught. Once we have this arc
length value, we can iterate through the points up to that arc length and use the second equation
shown to calculate the required speed
for the ith point. We can then repeat
a similar process for the final deceleration from the transit velocity to
rest at our stopped point. We will denote the entire arc
length of our path as Sf. So the third segment of our profile has
length Sf minus Sb. We can then solve
for Sb as follows. Once we have Sb, we can then iterate through
the points in this arc length range
and assign them the required velocities for a gentle deceleration to a stop. The remaining points
in the middle of the profile then take
our constant transit speed, v sub t. Putting
everything together, we have three regions in
our velocity profile; an initial ramp down to
our slow transit speed, a constant traversal
at this transit speed, and a final ramp down
to our stop point. We've shown you
two methods here for generating a velocity profile, but there are many other options
available as well. Using higher-order methods such as biquadratic velocity planners, we can minimize jerk along
the trajectory as well. It's also possible to apply higher-order functions
in our velocity ramp in the two methods we've
shown here, which can generate smoother and more
comfortable velocity profiles. Ultimately, velocity profiles can be optimized to meet multiple
objectives simultaneously while satisfying comfort
and safety constraints depending on the behavior
to be executed. In developing a velocity
profile generator for the final assessment, you should feel free
to expand on any of the concepts discussed in this video, as seems appropriate. To summarize, in this video, we discussed how to incorporate the output reference
velocity from our behavior planner into our velocity profile
generation process. We also discussed how
to use the time to collision to inform
our velocity profile generation, and we incorporated lateral acceleration
constraints as well. Finally, we discussed how to calculate linear ramp
and trapezoidal velocity profiles to implement velocity transitions
along a path. This completes the seventh
module on motion planning. Let's summarize the main points. You first learn to work with
two kinds of curves for path planning;
splines and spirals. You then define
the objectives and constraints needed to formulate the path planning problem. You developed experience
with the psi pi optimize function and applied it to a conformal lattice planner to identify collision-free paths. Finally, you learned
how to construct the velocity profile along the path to satisfy
multiple constraints. You should now have
enough knowledge to integrate a path planner and velocity profile planner to build your very own local planner
from the ground up. You'll learn more about this in the final project in the next module.
We'll see you there.