Hi everyone. In this lesson, we will discuss how to incorporate some of the
objectives and constraints we discussed in module one with the cubic spirals in
boundary conditions we introduced in the last lesson to create a path planning
optimization problem. By solving this problem, we'll be able to generate smooth, feasible paths that satisfy
all of our constraints. By the end of this video, you should be able to: Identify the boundary
conditions and constraints required for smooth path planning
using polynomial spirals, approximate some of
the required constraints to improve the tractability of
the optimization problem, and know how to map the required
parameters in such a way that the optimization problem converges quickly to
a feasible solution. Let's get started. If you recall from the previous lesson, our boundary conditions described the absolute minimum
requirements for a path being planned
between two points. Essentially, they
require that for a given starting position
heading and curvature, our planned path ends at a specific position heading
and curvature as well. This will give us our first set
of constraints on our optimization problem known as boundary conditions
which we can see here. Unfortunately, as we discussed in the last lesson that cubic spiral does not have
a closed form solution for the position at
the end of the spiral. To write our constraints in terms of the parameters of the spiral, we will need to use a numerical
integration technique. Many exist, but we'll apply Simpson's rule which we briefly mentioned in
the previous lesson. Let's look a bit more
closely at Simpson's rule. Simpson's rule is a commonly used numerical
integration technique that is generally
more precise than other simpler numerical methods. This is because it
evaluates the integral of the quadratic interpolation
of the given function rather than the integral of the linear interpolation as in some methods such as
midpoint and trapezoidal rules. Simpson's rule proceeds
by defining a number of equally spaced divisions of the integration domain
defined by n, and then summing terms at each division and boundary point. For example, if we
choose n equal to four, then we are splitting
the integration domain into four equally sized segments, and we therefore have five
points to include in our sum. Each term in the sum is
the function evaluated at the division point multiplied by the appropriate coefficient. In the interior of
the Simpson's rule equation, we can see that we have alternating coefficients
of four and two for each term except for the endpoint terms which
have a coefficient of one. As one would expect, as n increases, we get a more accurate approximation
to our integral. Let's apply this to
our specific planning problem. If we take n equals eight in the Simpson's rule
approximation, our approximation will be accurate enough for
the optimizations we'll be performing without being too computationally
expensive. Since the heading
Theta is just the integral of the cubic
spiral function, we can explicitly define
a closed form solution for it which is a fourth order polynomial
which is shown here. We can then use the values of Theta at each division point in a Simpson's rule approximation to compute the x and y positions
of the cubic spiral. The integrands to be
integrated for x and y are cosine of Theta of s and sine
of theta of s respectively, which are substituted in for f in the Simpson's rule to form
the following expressions. We now have a useful
approximation to the X and Y position of the spiral at any given arc
length point defined by our arc length
parameter s. We will denote the approximations
to x and y as computed using Simpson's
rule as x sub s and y sub s. Returning to
our boundary conditions, we now have an approximation
for the path ending location and we can write out
the boundary conditions in terms of the known
parameters of the spiral. We can now generate a spiral from one point to another
that satisfies the given boundary conditions
by iteratively optimizing the parameters of the spiral as well as its total arc length Sf. Before we do that, however, let's go over
the kinematic constraints we would like to enforce. Specifically for autonomous
driving path planning, we're going to be focusing
on curvature constraints. Cars have an absolute
minimum turning radius and need to stay within lateral acceleration limits to maintain wheel traction and
ride comfort in the vehicle. We'll discuss these constraints in more detail in future lessons. For now, let's assume
that our car can achieve a minimum turning
radius of two meters. This corresponds to
a maximum curvature of 0.5 arc meters. Now, it's quite
difficult to write out this curvature constraint at every single point
along the spiral. However, because of the
polynomial nature of the spiral, we only have to constrain
a few evenly spaced points. Because the polynomial
function of curvature is continuous
and well-behaved, we're likely to generate
a spiral that satisfies our curvature requirements when performing the optimization. For simplicity, let's
constrain the curvature at the one-third and two-third
points of the curve. The start and end
point curvatures were already constrained in
the boundary conditions. Once we've done this, we now have our curvature constraints as a function of the
parameters of the spiral, and we have all of our required constraints to solve the optimization problem. The final piece of the puzzle is the actual objective function
we wish to minimize. We want to encourage smoothness and comfort along
our planned path. One way to do so is to distribute the absolute curvature
evenly along the path. This can be done by minimizing the bending energy of
our planned parametric curve. The bending energy of
a curve is the integral of its squared curvature along the entire arc length
of the path. Since we have
a polynomial function of curvature describing
our cubic spiral, the bending energy integral has a closed form solution in terms of the spiral's parameters. In addition, its gradient also has a closed form solution. Both of these expressions
have many terms however so it's best left to a symbolic
solver to create them. The fact that
the objective function and its gradient have closed
form solutions make it an objective function that
is highly conducive to nonlinear programming which we will discuss in our next lesson. Now that we have
our objective function, we can put everything
together into our path planning optimization
problems shown here. For our purposes, we're going to assume the initial boundary
conditions are zero, which means that we are defining our local planning problem in the vehicle frame and results in the simplified expressions
for the heading and x and y approximations using Simpson's rule we've
defined in this video. This means that the initial boundary value constraints can be removed since they are already accounted for in
our integral calculations. Now we could very well
stop here and use this as our path generating
optimization problem. However, there is
a practical issue with how this optimization problem
is set up that may slow it down or cause it not to
converge at all when solved using canonical
non-linear programming solvers. Let's try to address this now. The main issue we can
see here has to do with the equality constraints of the final position and heading. Because equality constraints
must be satisfied exactly, it is quite hard for
a numerical optimizer to generate a feasible
solution from an infeasible starting point
which is often what is given to the optimizer for
an arbitrary problem instance. To alleviate this issue, it is common in optimization to soft inequality constraints to improve optimizer performance. Soft constraints convert
a strict constraint into a heavily penalized term
in the objective function. By heavily penalized,
we mean that the constraint penalty
term coefficient should be at least an
order of magnitude larger than the general
optimization objective. Although this allows
the optimizer to violate the boundary condition
equality constraints, the optimizer will be strongly encouraged to converge
to a solution that is as close as possible to
the boundary conditions before the bending energy
penalty term will be large enough to
influence the optimizer. We will also assume that our initial curvature is
known and is usually set to zero which corresponds to
a naught equal to zero. This reduces the number of
optimization variables by one. After softening
these constraints, our new optimization problem
is as follows. We have one further issue
we need to address before defining the final version of our optimization
to be implemented. The final issue we
can address has to do with the optimization
parameters. While there is
more intuition to using the cubic spiral coefficients
in our objective function, we can actually reduce
the number of parameters we are searching over
by taking the final curvature boundary constraint
into consideration. Let's redefine our cubic spiral using a different set
of parameters denoted by the vector p
where p has five elements. First, we have p
naught through p3, which denote the curvature
at the start, one-third point and two-thirds
point and the endpoint. The final term p4 is the
final arc length of the path. Conveniently, we have
a closed form mapping between the curvature parameter and the spiral parameters
as shown here. We can therefore
easily compute all of our constraints and
objective terms as a function of
these new p variables instead of the coefficients
of the spiral. Once the optimization is solved, we can use the
equations here to map the results back to
the spiral coefficients. Since we already know
the initial and final curvature, we can eliminate two
of the variables, p naught and p3. This leaves us with
only three variables in our optimization
problem p1, p2, and p4. By using the boundary conditions, we've reduced
the dimensionality of the optimization
problem which will result in a significant
computational speedup. The resulting final optimization
problem is as follows. We've replaced the function
of the spiral parameters by the equivalent functions after remapping to our p parameters. Note that the initial and
final path curvature p naught and p3 are constants. So the optimization
variables are now only p1, p2, and p4. This simplification was possible due to the boundary conditions of the curvature being known at the start and
the end of the path. Now that we've made
these modifications, we can solve the path planning
problem efficiently and with greatly reduced chance of getting stuck in
poor local minima. Let's summarize what we've
learned in this video. First, we reviewed
the required boundary conditions and constraints for this problem. We then discussed how
to numerically compute the n positions of a spiral
using Simpson's rule. We then introduced the bending energy objective to encourage smoothness and formed a generic spiral
optimization problem. Finally, we re-map
the parameters of the optimization
function to ensure fast convergence to
a feasible solution. Well, that was a lot of
new information to take in. We hope that this lesson
has given you an in-depth look at how to
perform smooth path planning. This lesson has tied
together many of the topics that we discussed
in modules one and four. So if you felt like some of this material was challenging, feel free to review those modules before working
through this lesson again. In our next lesson, we will be discussing
how to perform optimization in Python in order to prepare you to implement a full path planner.
See you next time.