Congratulations on submitting
your course to final project. Hopefully, you were able to
produce an accurate estimate of the vehicles trajectory using the measurements from
the Carlo simulator. Now, you'll have a chance to compare your implementation to
our project solution. Let's start by looking
at the main loop inside the error state
extended Kalman filter. In our solution, we're using the non-linear motion model that we defined in module five lesson two, which takes the specific force and rotational rates from our IMU as inputs and outputs a state which
consists of pose and velocity. The inputs to the motion model
are provided by the IMU measurements
available at every time step. Together with the pose and velocity estimate at
the previous time step, the model produces
an initial estimate of the current state
that is a prediction. Next, we need to produce
an initial estimate of the covariance or uncertainty
associated with this new state. Finally, we check whether they are GNSS or lidar measurements
available at the current time step. If there are measurements available, we correct the pose
and velocity estimates and the associated covariance
or uncertainty matrix. In the measurement update function, we first determine the Kalman gain
as defined in module two using the measurement model
Jacobian as well as the state and
measurement covariances. The updated Kalman gain is then
used to calculate the error state, which corrects our current pose and velocity estimates and
the filter covariance matrix. The resulting trajectory estimate can then be compared
to the ground truth. Looking at the ground truth, we can see that the vehicle
was following a curved path. Comparing the ground truth
trajectory to our estimate, we note that our estimate
remains close to ground truth in
the x and y directions. Well, there are some significant
errors in the z-direction. Looking at the state errors and the corresponding three sigma bonds, we see that the largest errors
for all states appear within the same time frame that coincides with the large z-direction error
we noticed earlier. The dashed red lines represent three standard deviations
from the ground truth. This gives an indication
as to how well our estimator model fits
the actual dynamics of the vehicle, and how well the estimator
is operating overall. The state error should remain within the three sigma bonds at all times. There are other estimators
you could have implemented to solve this problem, like the vanilla UKF or the
uncentered Kalman filter. You're welcome to compare
these implementations to the ESEKF and let us
know how they do. Again, congratulations on finishing
your course to File Project. State estimation is a vital part of any self-driving car software stack. Aside from GNSS and
lidar measurements, many other sensors and
sources of information are often used to produce reliable
estimates for self-driving cars. You'll learn more about
a very important sensor in the next course of
this specialization, the camera and how to use
it for visual perception. Keep up the great work.