Hello everyone. Welcome to the second lesson of this module. In this video, we will
identify the issues with the Bayesian
Probability Update step which we saw in
the previous lesson. We will then present
a solution to the issues highlighted using a log
odds representation. Finally, in this video, we will see the derivation of the Bayesian log odds update step required to update
the belief map. As we have seen in
the previous video, we can apply Bayes' theorem to combine the previous
belief map with the current measurement
information to create a highly accurate occupancy grid
at each time step. This is achieved by
the following function in which n represents a
normalizing constant, p of yt given mi is the
current measurement received, and the belief at time t minus 1 over mi is the
previous belief map. There is, however, a problem with using this simple
Bayesian update. To demonstrate the issue, we will look at an example
of an update to an unoccupied cell of the occupancy grid with
a new unoccupied measurement. Let's suppose we
have a cell which previously had a low belief
of occupation, 6.38 times 10 to the minus 4, and the new
measurement results in low probability as well, 1.2 times 10 to the minus 5. This means that the resulting
belief would be very low, or 8.0 times 10 to the minus 7. As you can see, all of these beliefs are
quite close to zero. Multiplication of
floating-point numbers on a computer, however, can lead to significant
rounding error when multiplying small numbers, which in turn can lead to instability in the estimate
of the probabilities. Further, the multiplication
of probabilities turns out to be an inefficient way to perform the belief update. So our basic application
of Bayes' rules to update beliefs over the occupancy cells
is not looking good. There is, however, a solution. Instead of storing the belief map with the values ranging from 0-1, we can convert our beliefs into log odds probabilities
using the logit function. We first saw this logit function
in course three. This leads to cell values
ranging from negative infinity to positive infinity avoiding the issue with numbers
close to zero. The logit function takes
the natural logarithm of the ratio of the
probability p and 1 minus p. So it takes
probability values from 0-1 and maps them to
the entire real axis. It is also possible
to transition from the log odds domain
back to probabilities. This is done by
taking the ratio of e raised to the logit
of p divided by 1 plus e to the logit of p. We now have an alternative
representation for our cell probabilities. So let's see how this affects our Bayesian
update equation. We will start this derivation
by the application of Bayes' rule to p of
mi given y1 to t, where mi is the current
occupancy grid map square at location i and y1 to t are
the sensor measurements of that cell from time one
to time t. Writing out the full Bayesian update
for incorporating the latest measurements
into our occupancy belief, we get the following equation. The first term in
the numerator is the probability of
getting measurement yt given the cell state at
all previous measurements. The second term in the numerator is the probability a cell is occupied given all
measurements to time t minus 1, and the nominator is the probability of
getting the measurements yt given all previous measurements
up to time t minus 1. It should be noted that
the measurement yt is separated from the rest of the measurements of
y1 to t minus 1. This is done as we would like to update the occupancy grid with only the most recent sensor
measurement rather than storing all measurements and applying them again every time. Next, we will apply the Markov
assumption which ensures the current measurement
is independent of previous measurements if
the map state mi is known. The next step is to expand
the measurement model p of y given mi by the application
of Bayes' rule once again. This results in
the probability of map cell mi being the current
measurement multiplied by the probability of getting
that measurement divided by the probability of
grid cell mi is occupied. We now substitute the
expanded measurement model in blue into the main Bayesian inference equation shown here. This leaves us with
three terms in the numerator and two
terms in the denominator. We will now pass
this expanded form through the logit function and then start simplifying the
resulting expression. Let's rearrange the term 1 minus p before we write out
the resulting expression. The denominator portion
of the log odds ratio 1 minus pmi given y1 to t can be constructed by negating the expression for
the probability of a cell being occupied, which is of course, the probability that a grid
cell is not occupied. Next, we form the log odds ratio which is simply the log of the ratio of the
probability a cell is occupied to the
probability it is not. There are many like terms in this expression which we can
now cancel out as follows. We arrive at the following
simplified expression for the odds ratio with only three terms each in
the numerator and denominator. We rewrite the expression in the original 1 minus p notation. As you may have noticed, this equation is better
viewed as three ratios. The ratio of the probabilities to 1 minus the same probability. The first ratio is
the probability of a cell being occupied
given a measurement y. The second is the probability
a cell is not occupied, and the third is
the prior belief that a cell is occupied given all measurements
up to time t minus 1. Finally, we apply
the log to our series of probability ratios to arrive at the addition of
three logit functions. This is our final update equation and has the nice property of simply requiring addition when a new measurement
is required. The three terms can be written in a convenient shorthand
where lt minus 1i is the logit of the belief that cell i is occupied
at time t minus 1. Similarly, l0i at time
zero and lti at time t. We now arrive at the convenient log odds
update rule for Bayesian inference on
occupancy grid maps. It is made up of
the three terms that are combined at each time step based on the latest
measurement data. The first term the logit
of the probability of mi given yt is the logit formed using new
measurement information. The probability
distribution p of mi given yt is known as
the inverse measurement model. We'll study how to do this in the next video for LIDAR data. Lt minus 1i is the previous belief at
time t minus 1 for cell i, and l0i is the initial belief at time zero for the same cell. The initial belief represents the baseline belief that
a grid cell is occupied, which is usually set to
50 percent uniformly as we don't expect to have
prior information that improves on this value. It shows up in this equation
at every time step, which is a bit surprising but is simply a result of
the derivation that we studied in this video and
adjusts the addition of the first two terms to ensure the updated belief is consistent
with the log odds form. The Bayesian log odds has two strong advantages over directly updating probabilities. The update is numerically
stable due to the logit mapping of 01 probabilities to
the entire real axis, and computationally, it is also significantly more efficient as it relies exclusively on addition to complete all updates
of the occupancy grid. Let's summarize what we
learned in this video. We first identified some issues
with storing and updating the occupancy grid with a straightforward Bayesian
probability update. We then saw how this issue
could be solved by employing the log
odds representation of the probability space. Finally, we saw how the Bayesian log odds update
is derived from Bayes' rule. In the next video, we
will learn how to take the Bayesian log odds
update and build the required inverse
measurement model to update the occupancy grid using filtered 2D LIDAR data.
See you there.