Welcome everyone to
the second part of our lesson on
Populating Occupancy Grid. In this video, we will
define the concept of an inverse measurement model
and see how to build a simple inverse measurement
model for a lidar sensor. We will also describe ray tracing which will significantly reduce computational
requirements for the inverse measurement
model. Let's dive in. Recall from the previous video
that in order to perform the Bayesian update
of our occupancy grid, we need to be able to evaluate
the log-odds update rule. To do this we need to compute
p of mi given yt which represents the probability of a cell mi in the occupancy
grid being occupied, given a certain measurement
yt is obtained by the lidar. However, so far the measurement
models we have seen have taken the form the probability
of yt given mi, which is in the mapping
case represents the probability of getting
a certain lidar measurement, given a cell in the
occupancy grid is occupied. So for occupancy grid updates, we need to flip
this measurement model around. That is, we have to construct an inverse measurement model that constructs p of mi given yt for every new
measurement received. As mentioned in
the first lesson of this module, for simplicity sake, we will only look at
the lidar data as a 2D range data containing
two sets of information. The bearing at
which each beam was fired and the range
that the beam traveled. This is easily extended to 3D with the addition
of an elevation angle. The bearing of each beam
is represented by a set of angles Phi evenly spaced within a range defined by the minimum and maximum
viewing angles of the sensor. Typical rotating lidar
are able to capture data in all directions
around the vehicle, we'll assume the
available bearings in this course will cover
all 360 degrees. The range of each beam corresponds to the distance
it has traveled before impacting an object
represented by r1 to rJ. The range is measured between minimum and maximum ranges
r min and r max, and we'll assume r min
is zero for simplicity. Most lidar today will also
return a no echo signal, if a particular beam
does not return an echo, indicating the absence of any object within range
in that direction. As we proceed in this video, we will make
an assumption here that the entire lidar scan
measurements from a single rotation of the sensor is measured at
the same instant in time. This is not an accurate
model for a vehicle moving at speed with
a rotating lidar head, as we must actually correct for the motion
of the vehicle, the correction can be
done using the state estimates you developed
in course two, and interpolating the motion between these state
estimates as needed. So the inverse measurement model will take the following form. Suppose this is the vehicle with a lidar sensor collecting range measurements at
different bearings in the following environment. We construct a temporary
occupancy grid that encompasses the maximum range of the beams in all directions. The coordinate frame for
this measurement grid uses the occupancy grid map frame
and so we define a position x1 t and x2 t and an orientation x3 t of the sensor in
the occupancy grid frame. In practice, this
occupancy grid frame is set to the vehicle frame and the map is transformed at each step based on
our state estimates. We're now ready to populate the temporary measurement grid with occupancy probabilities. Based on the current lidar data, we can define three distinct areas of
the measurement grid. First, there is an area of no information which none of the lidar beams had
been able to reach. The current lidar scan provides no new information about
the environment in this area. Then there is an area with
low probability of an object, as all the beams
have passed through this area without
encountering anything. Finally, there is an area with high probability
of an object, in which the lidar has
come into contact with an object and has returned
a non maximum range value. To translate these areas
onto the measurement grid, each grid square will
be assigned a range in bearing relative to
the vehicles current location. The relative range of
each cell is simply the Euclidean distance
from the sensor to the cell, defined as follows, where ri is the range
to grid cell i and mxi and myi are the x and y coordinates of the center
of the grid cell. Finally, x1 t and x2 t are the sensor location
at the current time t. The relative bearing to each cell is computed using
the tan inverse function. Here Phi identifies
the bearing to the given cell in reference to the sensor's
coordinate frame. For each cell, we associate the most
relevant lidar beam by finding the measurement
with the minimum error between its beam angle
and the cell bearing. We then define two parameters
Alpha and Beta, which define a sector
around each beam in which cell occupancy should be determined based
on the beam range. This essentially creates
a region around each beam which will get assigned the measurement information
of that particular beam. Alpha controls the range
cells at the range of the beam which will be
tagged as high probability. Beta controls the angle
of the beam for which cells will be marked as
either low or high probability. We are now ready to assign a probability that
any cell is occupied given the lidar
measurements received based on these three
types of cells. The no information zone
corresponds to all cells with a greater range, than the measured range
or outside the angle Beta sized cone for the
measurements associated with it. We assign a probability
of an obstacle equal to the prior probability
of a cell being occupied which is usually 0.5. The high information zone defines cells that fall within
Alpha over two of the range measurement
and within Beta over two of the angle of the
measurement associated with it. We assign an occupied
probability of greater than 0.5. to these cells. Finally, the low
information zone is defined by cells that
have a range less than the measured range minus
Alpha over two and lie within the Beta sized
cone about the measurement. We assign an occupied
probability of less than 0.5 to these cells. For example, let's say
a lidar scan returns a range to an object at
the location marked by a red X. The affected area which
will be tagged as high probability is given in red. Increasing the value of Alpha
will increase the range of the affected region and
increasing the value of Beta affects the angle
of the affected region. We can now construct the full inverse
measurement model to be used in our log-odds update. However, this simple
inverse measurement model can be computationally expensive. It requires a full update of every cell in
the measurement map, and relies on multiple
floating-point operations to identify which measurements
correspond to which cells. An alternative, is to use
a ray tracing algorithm, such as the computer
science classic, the Bresenham's line algorithm. Bresenham's line algorithm
was originally designed in the early 1960's
to efficiently solve the line
plotting problem for displays and printing on the available hardware
of the day. By ray tracing along
the beams of the lidar scan, we reduce the number
of cells that need to be processed and identify them more quickly relying on
integer addition subtraction and bit shifting to move through the grid along the lidar beams. Interestingly, many beams go
through the same cells near the car greatly increasing the confidence in
measurements nearby. This concludes our discussion of the inverse measurement model for log odds occupancy grid mapping. Let's summarize. In this video, we constructed a simple inverse
measurement model for lidar data needed in
the log-odds update step. We also briefly covered a potential improvement by using ray tracing to
speed computations. In our next video, we will look into the many steps
needed to prepare a 3D lidar scan to be used for occupancy grid mapping.
See you there.