Welcome everyone to
the final lesson of module two. We will finish
this week on mapping by looking at another
essential map type, the High Definition Road Map. In this video, we will define
a High-Definition Road Map. We will then see how
this map can effectively be stored by looking at a datatype
called the lanelet Map. We will then take a look at two main elements
of the lanelet map; the lanelets and
the intersection elements, and discuss how
they are connected. Each of the elements
will then be broken down into its components, so we can explore the full extent of this mapping data structure. Next, we look at
the different operations that can be performed on
lanelet elements. Finally, we will explore
different methods of recording and
creating lanelet maps. A High-Definition Road Map
is similar to traditional paper-based maps
or online maps. However, the information
contained within the High Definition map or HD map is significantly
more detailed. While a traditional map stores the approximate
locations of roads, the High Definition
Road Maps stores the precise road
locations including all lanes down to
a few centimeters accuracy. Along with this, the High Definition
Road Maps stores all of the locations of road signs and signals which might effect
the autonomous vehicle. Due to the detailed and interconnected nature
of the data, an effective method
is required to store all information
contained within the map. The lanelet concept
was proposed in a 2014 publication entitled, Lanelets: Efficient
Map Representation for Autonomous Driving
by Philip Bender, Julius Ziegler, and
Christoph Stiller. Due to this method's
effectiveness in storage and communication of the complex set of information
needed for HD mapping, it is widely used. We'll look at this framework
for the rest of the course, and they will play a key role in our behavior planning
methods in particular. The lanelet map has
two main components, which we will discuss in
greater detail in this lesson. A lanelet element which stores all information
connected to a small longitudinal segment of a lane on a road
which it represents. An intersection element
which stores all lanelet elements
which are part of a single intersection for simple retrieval during
motion planning tasks. This will be followed
by an explanation of the connectivity between all the different
lanelet elements. A lanelet elements has
several sets of information that stores about the segment of
road that it represents. First, a lanelet stores the left and right boundaries
of the given lane. Second, a lanelet stores any regulatory elements
that might be present at the end of
the lanelet element, such as a stop sign line
or a static sign line. Note that we only
store a line for any regulatory element as
this is the point that the autonomous vehicle treats as the active location for
that regulatory element. Third, a lanelet stores all regulatory attributes that might affect that
segment of the road, such as the speed limit. Fourth, a lanelet
stores the connectivity of itself to other lanelet
elements around it. This allows for easy traversal
and calculations through the graph created by the set of lanelets in an HD map. Each lanelet ends as
a regulatory element or a change to a regulatory
attribute is encountered. This means that a
lanelet element can be as short as only a few meters in
the case of a lanelet, which is part of an intersection, or can be hundreds of meters long for a highway road segment. Boundaries of the lanelet are represented as the edges
of the lanelet. These boundaries capture
either marked lane boundaries or curves which inhibit driving. Lane boundaries are
stored as a set of points creating
a continuous polygonal line. Each point stores its x, y, and z GPS coordinates. The distance between points can be as fine as a few centimeters, or as course as a few meters depending on the smoothness
of the polyline in question. Using this polygonal
line structure, many useful operations
can be performed to gather data for the task
of motion planning. The ordering of
the points defines the direction of travel and
heading for the lanelet. The road curvature of any part of the lanelet can be precomputed
from that lanelet as well. A center line between the two boundaries
can be interpolated, which can be used as
the desired path of travel for the autonomous
vehicle in that lane. There are two types of lanelet regulations:
Regulation Elements, which come at the end
of the lanelet, and regulation attributes, which affect the entirety
of the lanelet. Regulatory elements are
represented as lines which are defined by a set
of co-linear points. Regulation elements
usually require an action or decision to be made, such as in the case
of a traffic light, or the decision to
proceed must be based on the current state
of that traffic light. Regulatory attributes persist for the entirety of the lanelet. Examples include speed limits, or whether this lanelet crosses another lanelet as in
an intersection or merge. Each lanelet has
four possible connections: Lanelets directly to the left, lanelets directly to
the right, lanelet preceding it, and lanelet following it. The entire lanelet structure is connected in a directed graph, which is the base structure
of the HD map. It should be noted there could be more than one lanelet
preceding the current lanelet, or more than one following lanelet as in the case
of an intersection. To better understand
this concept, let's take a look at
a simple example using this particular set of lanelets for a
three-way intersection. As you can see, some
of the lanelets are numbered and represented
as nodes on the graph, which therefore
represent only a portion of the complete lanelet graph
with this intersection. The nodes or vertices are labeled one through five
on the lane that figure, and form the vertices
of the lanelet graph. All edges of this graph are directed and are
labeled to denote the relationship between the two vertices
the edge connects. An edge marked as zero represents the transition
to the next lanelet. A one indicates a connection
to the left lanelet. An edge labeled two represents a connection to
the right lanelet, and a three represents
previously lanelets. The lanelet element, which is represented by the number
one in this picture, has in fact two
possible next elements. Lanelet element five and
lanelet element two are two possible next
lanelets that can be driven on after
leaving lanelet one, as they are two ways
through this intersection. Similarly, lanelet
element four is connected to lanelet
one with a one edge, as lanelet four is to
the left of lanelet one. The intersection
elements simply holds a pointer to
all regulatory elements, which make up the
intersection of interest. All lanelet elements
which are part of an intersection also point to
this intersection element. This structure acts much
like a container and simplifies look-ups throughout the lanelet structure
when assigning behaviors. A big advantage of the lanelet data structure
is that it makes parts of the motion planning process simpler and more
computationally efficient. The process of
path planning through complex multi-lane road networks, which require
multiple link changes well in advance of turning, are made possible with
this data structure as each lanelet is treated
as a separate vertex. Localizing dynamic objects to a known map improves
path predictions, as we shall see in module four. This type of localization
ability also improves interactions with
dynamic objects by providing an easy method to plan the behavior of an autonomous car through a busy intersection, as we'll see in module five. The creation of such a map can
be done in three ways: The first is creating the map
offline by driving the road network several times and collecting information, and then fusing both
segmentation as well as localization
information to improve the accuracy of the map. In this method,
hand corrections are also possible if any mistakes are
noted from the algorithms. The second method is to
create a lanelet map online while driving a road
network for the first time. With the use of
existing traditional maps and heavily relying on segmentation
and object detection, it is possible to
create the map as the autonomous vehicle drives through the road network
for the first time. This method is highly
computationally expensive both in terms of
the motion planning task, as well as the perception tasks. Not to mention highly error-prone and thus
is rarely deployed. The third approach for
creating HD maps is to create the maps offline and then update them online if
changes are detected. One such change might be a new construction zone resulting in a new
regulatory element, and this is something
that could not have been predicted
during map creation. In fact, all of these methods use the same underlying
calculations to identify lanelet elements,
attributes, and intersections. In practice, offline
map construction with live confirmation and updating captures the best of both worlds, ensuring high precision on static elements that do
not change frequently, and yet still capturing
the novelty in the environment and allowing
the vehicle to adapt to it. There is much more
detail that can be included in this discussion
about HD mapping. So we've added some links to the supplemental materials if you'd like to dive in deeper. Congratulations, you've made it to the end of this module. In this module, you've
learned all about the creation of two types
of environment maps, which are required
for motion planning. We started by looking
at the construction of occupancy grid maps from rider data for self-driving cars. It's Bayesian log-odds
update steps, and all the required
filtering needed to create meaningful maps or
static objects to be avoided. We also looked at High Definition Road Maps
using the lanelet model. We discussed the various
components which make up these maps and how they can be used for fundamental motion
planning operations. In the next module, we will look into
the mission planning problem, the first step in
the task of developing safe and effective trajectories for self-driving cars.
See you then.