Welcome to module three of
our state estimation course. In this module, we're
going to introduce you to two sensors that you can use to
help localize our self-driving car. To do this, we'll first review some 3D kinematics and several
important reference frames, then discuss some details about
how we can represent rotations, and finally, we'll present the inertial measurement unit and
Global Navigation Satellite Systems. But first, it's useful to
review a bit of 3D geometry. To track how our car moves, we'll need to know how we can express that motion using
mathematical tools and notation. In this lesson, we'll review how reference frames
affect vector coordinates, compare and contrast different
rotation representations, and present several
reference frames that'll be important in our next lesson on sensors. Recall that a vector is a geometric object that has
a magnitude and a direction. Often, we treat the concept of a vector interchangeably with the concept
of vector coordinates, or the set of numbers that represent
the vector's direction and magnitude. This however is not necessarily correct. If we imagine that the vector
is fixed in space, then its coordinates will change depending on the way in
which we observe it. More precisely, the same
vector quantity will have different coordinates depending on which coordinate
frame or reference frame we choose to express it in. We will use the following
notation: In frame a, the vector r has notation r sub a. Likewise in frame b, it has the coordinates r sub b. To convert from one set of
coordinates to another, we will require a rotation
matrix that tells us exactly how one frame is rotated
with respect to the other. For this, we will use the notation
bold capital C with the subscripts indicating the initial and final
reference frames from right to left. Often, it will also be useful for
us to discuss how the coordinates of points change as we move from
one reference frame to another. For example, we may know the position
of a building in some frame, and now we'd like to know its position
in our current vehicle frame. To compute this, we use vector addition making sure to express all of the
coordinates in the same reference frame. We will use superscripts
on the coordinates to indicate the start and
end point of a 3D vector, again from right to left, and a subscript to indicate
the frame in which this is expressed just as before. We can manipulate this expression
to solve for the coordinates in the vehicle frame or an appropriate
inertial frame, for example. A critical component of tracking
reference frames is tracking their orientation or rotation with
respect to some base reference frame. Rotations are particularly tricky
mathematical objects and they can be the source of major bugs if not
dealt with carefully and diligently. There are many different ways
to represent rotations. The most common is to use a three by three rotation matrix
as we've done before. This matrix defines
the relationship between the basis vectors of two reference
frames in terms of dot products. For this reason, it's often called
the direction cosine matrix. An important property to
remember is that the inverse of a rotation matrix
is just its transpose. A second way to represent rotations is to use something called unit quaternions. Quaternions are an interesting
mathematical topic in their own right, but for us, it's sufficient to note
that a unit quaternion can be represented as
a four-dimensional vector of unit length that parameterizes a rotation about an axis
defined by the vector u, and an angle phi about that vector. We can convert a quaternion
to a rotation matrix by using this somewhat tedious but
straightforward algebraic expression. Why would we ever want
to use quaternions? Well, they don't suffer from singularities and they only need
four parameters instead of nine. Finally, another way of representing a rotation is using three numbers
called Euler angles. These angles represent an arbitrary
rotation as the composition of three separate rotations about
different principal axes. Euler angles are attractive in part because they are
a parsimonious representation requiring only three parameters instead
of nine for a full rotation matrix. Unfortunately,
Euler angle representations are subject to what are
called singularities. Singularities complicate
state estimation because they represent particular rotations from which to
Euler angles are indistinguishable. Neither quaternions nor
rotation matrices suffer from this problem at the expense
of using more parameters. So, which of these representations do
self-driving vehicle engineers use? Well, it depends. Each has advantages and disadvantages. A rotation matrix can
represent any rotation but requires nine parameters
and had six constraints. A unit quaternion can also be
used to represent any rotation, but it also has a constraint. To use a unit quaternion to
actually rotate a vector, we also require some additional algebra beyond simple matrix multiplication. Finally, Euler angles are unconstrained, intuitive to visualize and
use only three parameters, but are subject to singularities. Finally, let's look at four important reference frames that
we'll use when localizing our vehicle. The first frame is the Earth-Centered
Inertial Frame or ECIF. This frame has its origin
at the center of the earth, the z axis points true north, and the x and y axis are fixed with
respect to the very distant stars. This means that although the earth
rotates about the z axis, the x and y axes do not move. Next, the Earth-Eentered
Earth-Fixed Frame, or ECEF is just like ECIF except that it's x axis is aligned with the Prime
Meridian and spins with the earth. The y-axis is determined
by the right-hand rule. Here, you can see an animation that
shows the difference between the ECEF, which is fixed to the earth, and the ECIF, which is fixed with
respect to the distance stars. Although ECEF and ECIF are useful when we discuss satellites and
inertial sensing onboard aircraft, for practical car applications, we'll usually want to use a frame that
is fixed with respect to the ground. For this, we'll use what we referred
to as the navigation frame. A very common navigation frame
is one that is attached to some germane starting point and
aligned with north, east, and down. Finally, we also often
need to think about a sensor frame that is rigidly
attached to a sensor like a LIDAR, a GPS receiver, or
an inertial measurement unit. This frame will typically be distinct
from the general vehicle frame, which can be placed anywhere on
the vehicle that is convenient, at the center of mass for example. For localization, we will often
ignore the distinction between the vehicle and sensor frame and assume
that if we can track the sensor, we should be able to track any point on the vehicle given proper calibration, a topic we investigate later. To summarize, vector quantities can be expressed in different reference frames
through rotations and translations. Rotations can be parameterized
by rotation matrices, quaternions, or Euler angles, each of which has advantages
and disadvantages. The Earth-Centered Earth-Fixed,
Earth-Centered Inertial, and navigation frames are important
reference frames for localization. In the next video, we'll discuss how we can use the tools we learned about in this lesson to track motion by
using an inertial measurement unit.