You've now seen some of the capabilities of Carla and hopefully you've had a chance to download the simulator and start experimenting with it yourself. Now that we have a working simulation environment, you're ready to start implementing and testing the concepts that you've learned throughout this course. Let's take a look at the final projects you'll work on for course one of this specialization. In this project, you'll implement a simple controller in Python and use it to drive a car around a track in Carla. The track is a loop shown in this figure. You will be given a sorted list of waypoints which are equally spaced on this track. The waypoints include their positions as well as the speed the vehicles should attain. As a result, the waypoints become the reference signal for your controller and navigating to all the waypoints effectively completes the full track. Since the controller reference contains both position and speed, you will need to implement both longitudinal and lateral control. You may want to refer back to the modules on longitudinal control and lateral control before starting the project. The output of your controller will be the vehicle throttle, brake, and steering angle commands. The throttle and brake will come from your longitudinal speed control and the steering will come from your lateral control. Make sure to start with a simple controller design as possible and only add complexity if your vehicle does not track the path as expected. Of course, once you've got a working controller, don't hesitate to push its limits and see what it can really do on the race track. So, how are you going to want to structure your code for this project? We've prepared a starting script for you so that you don't need to worry about any of the Carla implementation details and you can just focus on programming the controller itself. If you open the simulator directory and navigate to the Course one final project folder, you'll see a file named controller2d.py. This is what you'll use as the starting point for the course project. When you open this file, you'll see the vehicle controller implemented as a Python class. This class contains all the information relevant to implementing the controller. The vehicle state, desired waypoint, desired speed, and controller outputs are stored in variables ready to be used. The class also contains functions which will interface with Carla directly. These functions will continually update the vehicle state and send the controller outputs to Carla, allowing you to focus your efforts purely on the controller implementation. Now, you might be wondering how your code is going to be evaluated and how you'll earn a grade for this project. After running your controller, a text file will be generated logging the entire trajectory of the vehicle. This file is called trajectory.txt and it is located in the controller output sub-folder. The performance of your controller will be graded based on this trajectory. There's a greater script that the Coursera platform we'll use to check your code. It will plot your waypoints, vehicle trajectory, and vehicle speeds compared to the desired speeds. Each waypoint has a distance and a speed threshold which are shown in green. A waypoint is considered successfully reached if the vehicle trajectory is within both thresholds. The grading script will tell you how many way points you have successfully reached and if you reach more than half, you'll pass the assessment. Once your trajectory passes the grading script, you can upload the trajectory text file onto Coursera for official completion. You now have everything you need in order to implement your very first controller and test it in simulation. This is a big step towards developing self-driving cars and a fundamental scenario that you'll see in the field. If you have any questions that I didn't answer in this video, there are further instructions in the readings for this module and you can always ask in the discussion forums as well. I hope you have fun with this final project and I'll see you again once that's completed to close out the course. Good luck.