Hi everyone, and welcome
to lesson three. In this video, we will explore some of the objective
functions most commonly used in the autonomous driving motion planning problem formulation. In this context, the
objective function of our motion planning
problem gives us a way of scoring
our current motion plan, and allows us to optimize the motion plans such that it has desirable characteristics. After completing this lesson, you'll be able to list some useful objective
functions that can be used in motion planning
for autonomous driving. You will also understand
the benefits that each objective function offers to the motion planning process. So let's get started. When performing path planning, the simplest and most intuitive
goal is that we would like to reach our destination
as efficiently as possible. In the path planning
context this, often translates to minimizing the arc length of the
path that we're planning. What is the arc length? Intuitively, the
arc length of the path is the total accumulated distance the car will travel as
it traverses the path. In many cases, the path will be parameterized by arc length. So this can be formulated as a penalty term proportional
to the arc length. In other cases, we
will have to solve an integral numerically to calculate the arc length of a path. The general arc length integral is shown here
in the first equation, where Sf is the total
accumulated arc length, Xi is the starting x
coordinate of the path, and Xf is the end x
coordinate of the path. By minimizing arc length, we are computing
the shortest path from our current location, through our required destination. When optimizing a
velocity profile, time to destination is often the objective we
would like to minimize. In terms of arc length, this is the same as
integrating the inverse of the longitudinal velocity over the path as a function
of arc length. Intuitively, this is
equivalent to dividing the total distance by the velocity traveled along
the curve at each point. Except since the velocity
changes along the path, we formulate it as an integral. This integral is given
in the second equation, where Tf is the total time
of the profile. By minimizing this integral, we are minimizing
the time to reach the destination while following
a given planned path. As an example, let's look at two possible paths between the same start and end locations. The first path clearly has a longer arc length
than the second path, and is therefore
less efficient at the task of reaching
its destination. We can see that even
though they have the same initial
and final states, the second path will result in a lower value of the arc length
objective function, which suits are driving
task more favorably. Now, in path planning
for autonomous driving, we may be given a reference path
we'd like to follow. In many cases, this
will be given to us by our mapping module as
the center line of a length, or the required path for
a turn in an intersection. To ensure that we follow the reference path as
closely as possible, we include what is known as an integral of difference term, or IOD for short. Essentially, it
penalizes deviations from the input
reference path Xref, as we traverse
are calculated path as shown in the first equation. Similarly, when performing
velocity profile optimization, we often want to minimize the difference between
our velocity profiles speed throughout the path with
some reference speed Vref, whether it will be
the speed limit or determined otherwise. This is shown in
the second equation. While this can be formulated as an absolute difference penalty, it is often the case
that we want to penalize exceeding speed limits more harshly than staying
below the speed limit. So we may add what is
called a hinge loss term to our objective shown
in the third equation. Essentially, this term is only active when the velocity profile
exceeds the speed limit, that is when
the difference between our speed and the speed
limit is positive, otherwise this term is zero. This allows us to penalize speed limit violations more
harshly while still allowing us to encourage
the autonomous vehicle to reach its required
reference velocity. The next objective we'd like to tackle is rides smoothness. Recall from the previous lesson
that in order to maintain stability and comfort, we constrained our maximum
acceleration magnitude. When optimizing comfort in the objective function
of our velocity profile, we instead turn our focus to minimizing the jerk
along our trajectory. What is jerk? We're
not referring to that of noxious driver
that you just cut off. Jerk is the rate of change of acceleration with
respect to time, or the third derivative
of position. The jerk along the car's
trajectory greatly impacts the user's comfort
while in the car. So when planning
our velocity profile, we would like to keep
the accumulated absolute value of jerk as small as possible, shown here by this integral. Let's look at an example of two different velocity profiles. On the left is
a linear ramp profile which maximizes jerk at the
start and end of the profile. This is shown in
the large spikes in the jerk at the start
and end of our plot. For passengers, this can
be quite uncomfortable. If we compare this with a bi quadratic profile
as seen on the right, We can see that there are
no jerk spikes which will result in a much smoother
ride for the passengers. Because of this
difference in comfort, it is important to
choose profiles that reduce jerk that passengers
feel when possible. Now, when planning paths, we have to be mindful that
the structure of our path will impact the comfort of
our velocity profile as well. Recall from the
previous lesson that paths with high
curvature constrained the maximum velocity
along the path to a low value in order to remain within the friction
ellipse of the vehicle. To ensure that we avoid points of high curvature along our path, we need to formulate some penalty for
large absolute curvature values, and objective function that
is commonly used to represent this penalty is known as
the bending energy of the path. Essentially, it is
the square curvature integrated along the path, where once again Kappa
denotes the curvature. This objective
distributes the curvature more evenly along the path, preventing any one
along the path from reaching too high a
total curvature value. As an example, in this path, we have a path planned
for a left turn with quite a harsh bend before
reaching the goal state. According to our bending
energy objective, this will be highly
penalized as there is a point of peaks
curvature along the path. If we were to plan a
velocity profile for this path, we would need to decelerate greatly by the time we reached
the bend in the curve. Otherwise we would
sacrifice comfort of our passengers and potentially
even vehicle stability. If we instead look at
the path on the right, we have a path for
a left turn with a more widely distributed
lower overall curvature. This will result in a smoother
more comfortable term, and will allow us to maintain a reasonable speed while still staying within
the comfort rectangle when optimizing
our velocity profile. Now that we've gone
through a variety of objective functions
for motion planning, let's take some time to summarize what we've
discussed in this video. We first discussed objective functions
related to efficiency, and also discussed how they reduce path length
and transit time. We discussed how to
encourage trajectories to track reference paths
and velocity profiles, as well as how to
improve comfort along a given trajectory by penalizing high-path
curvature and jerk. By now, you should have
a general idea of some types of objective functions
you will need to consider when optimizing paths
and trajectories. When designing an over-arching
objective function, each of these terms will need to be combined into one function, often as a weighted sum. The particular
combination of weights you choose is
an engineering decision, and you will need to
fine tune your choice depending on
a specific application. Of course, we have only
scratched the surface on a rich topic of optimization objectives for
path and trajectory planning. As you progress as an autonomy engineer I'm
sure you'll be able to come up with interesting
and useful objectives functions yourself. In our next video, we will discuss ways to decouple the motion planning problem into simpler and smaller sub-problems, as well as outline
different approaches to solving each sub-problem.
See you there.