Hi everyone? So far
in this module, we've described the planning
problem in general, we've described a hierarchy for solving the complex
planning problem, and we described
the constraints and objectives that make
planning so hard. In this lesson, we'll discuss the hierarchy for decomposing, the overall planning problem into smaller sub-problems
in more detail. By the end of this video, you will understand the scope
of mission planning, behavioral planning, and
local planning sub-problems. You'll be able to list some methods for solving
each of the problems, you'll also understand why this hierarchy is used
in many self-driving car systems progressively
refining the plans for motion through
the environment. Let's begin by reviewing
our planning hierarchy. If you recall from lesson
one of this module, we introduced the
hierarchical structure we will use for motion planning
and it's autonomous driving. We described each level of
the hierarchical planner as defining its own
optimization problem, with each level of the hierarchy having a specific degree of abstraction with respect to the relevant objective function
and constraints. The mission planner is the highest level
optimization problem where we focus on map level navigation from the vehicles
current position, to a given destination. Behavioral planning on
the other hand will focus on the current
driving scenario, and will decide which maneuver to execute based on other agents
in the workspace, and the rules of the road. Finally, we have
the local planner, which will focus on generating
kinematically feasible, collision-free paths, as well as comfortable velocity profiles
in a decoupled manner. This will then be output to our vehicle controller that
we discussed in course one. By breaking the planning problem
into sub-problems, we constrain how much knowledge
and computation is required at each part of
the motion planning process. Which allows for
more efficient computation. This comes with a
trade-off however, as when we decompose the problem, each sub-problem loses
some domain information. We end up with
a sub-optimal motion plan as compared to emotion plan that takes all aspects of the planning process into
consideration at the same time. For autonomous driving, the ability to run
our motion planner in real-time is crucial, so this trade-off is
almost always worth it. Some motion planning
methods integrate the differing sub-problems
in varying degrees. But in this lesson,
we're going to focus on this particular
hierarchical decomposition. Next, let's go over each
of these steps in detail. As mentioned, the first
and highest level step in our hierarchical motion planner
is the mission planner. The mission planner focuses on map level navigation from the ego-vehicles
current position, through a required destination. Because the scale
of mission planning is often on the
order of kilometers, we require a high level of abstraction to make
the problem tractable. In this sense we often
ignore aspects of the motion planning
problems such as obstacles and
regulatory elements, and instead focus on
the macro aspects of the problem such as traffic
and road connections. By doing this, we can
simplify the problem to the point where we can plan out a required driving mission, over a large spatial scale. An example is shown here
where we are planning between two points on a map
of Berkeley, California, taking into consideration
the various intersections and road connections on the map, as well as the
directionality of each road. Doing so, we then compute the shortest path in our road
network to our destination. This can be done in
a variety of ways. If we focus on the spatial length of the roads in the road network, we can construct a graph from the road network and then use Dijkstra's algorithm or A* search to find the shortest path. If instead we focus on time to destination as
our objective to minimize, the problem becomes
more complex but can still be solved using
the same algorithms. We will discuss these methods in much more detail in module three. The next step in our hierarchical planner
is the behavior planner. What is the behavior planner? The behavior planner is a portion of the motion
planner that focuses on high level decision making required to follow the
rules of the road, and recognize which maneuvers are safe to make in
a given driving scenario. We discussed many of these scenarios in
our first lessons together. For example, recall that
one of the scenarios we discussed was performing
a turn at an intersection. Let's say for
the sake of example, the ego-vehicle has
entered an intersection to perform a left turn and
the light is turning green. The behavior planner
should make it clear to the path planner and
velocity generator, that is only safe to
proceed when there is sufficient time gap between
the ego-vehicles position, and the oncoming traffic and pedestrians in the intersection. Following the taxonomy of maneuvers we discussed
in our first lesson, the behavior planner
should output a yield maneuver to the remaining portion
of the motion planner, which will ensure that they only proceed once it is
cleared to do so. Of course, our taxonomy
is in no way universal, there are many possibilities
when deciding what types of maneuvers and what scope of behaviors your autonomous car
should exhibit. Now you may be wondering how is the behavior planner are
supposed to take in all of the information about the autonomous vehicles
surroundings and calculate what maneuver it should execute in an efficient manner. This is an area of active
research and there is no settled best method
to achieve this. In general, there appear to be three different
prevailing architectures to solve the behavioral
planning problem. The first group are methods that use finite state machines. The key concept behind finite state machines is
that they are composed of: states which represent the ego-vehicles
required maneuvers, and transitions which dictate how the state should evolve
depending on the inputs. These may be things
like: vehicle locations, traffic light transitions, or any other element of interest in our current
driving scenario. As an example, one could imagine a state machine that handles stop signs to have a state such
as decelerate to stop, stop and track speed. When a car encounters
a stop sign, it would first enter
the decelerate to stop state, where the behavioral
planner would then signal that it is
time to decelerate. Once it has stopped
at the stop location, the behavior planner
will remain in the stop state for
a set amount of time. Once the time has been exceeded and the intersection is clear, the behavior planner will
then enter the track speeds state which means it is
safe to continue driving. We go through this example in more detail in a later module
in this course. It is important to note that when deciding which transition to take at each step of
the finite state machine, we focus entirely on
the current state, and the inputs to
the finite state machine. Essentially, this means that the finite state
machine is memoryless. Its past states do not impact the current
transition or output. This is a helpful
property that makes finite state machines
straightforward to implement, but can lead to many states
that are similar for systems where sequences
of actions do matter. The next common type of behavioral planners are
rule-based systems. Essentially,
these type of systems consist of a hierarchy of rules, where the hierarchy represents the relative importance
of each rule. Each rule may
correspond to a rule of the road such as
stopping at a red light, or may correspond to a driving best practice such as maintaining a two second gap, between the ego-vehicle
and a leading vehicle. The state of the ego-vehicle and its surroundings
would then be fed into the rule-based system in the form of logical predicates. These predicates would
then be evaluated against every rule and based
on the rule priority, the maneuver corresponding to the highest priority rule would be output to the rest
of the motion planner. For example, suppose we have
the following two rules. The first rule checks if
there is a green light ahead and issues a decision for
the car to continue driving. While the second rule checks
if there are pedestrians in the cars lanes and issues a decision to perform
the emergency stop maneuver. In our system, stopping
for a pedestrian in front of us is higher priority than driving through green light. Now suppose we were driving along and observe
a green light at the upcoming
intersection as well as a pedestrian crossing illegally in front of the intersection. Both rules would trigger
in this case but since the emergency stop
is higher priority, that is the maneuver that the rule-based system
will output. As you can imagine, it is both important and challenging to make sure rule-based systems
are logically consistent. Otherwise, they can
exhibit erratic behavior. The final group of behavior planning approaches are machine learning-based methods. In particular,
an interesting example of this method is using
reinforcement learning. Reinforcement learning is
the process of determining an optimal decision-making policy that maximizes
some reward function R. This reward function values the quality of a given chain
of actions for all time steps discounting future states more
heavily than the present. The process of
reinforcement learning requires the agent to perform actions in an environment often given by simulation. This agent is then rewarded according to its interaction
with the environment. Which then allows
it to converge to an optimal policy through
successive interactions. This group of behavior planning
approaches is rapidly expanding area of research
and unfortunately, a deep dive is beyond
the scope of this course. The next and final module in our hierarchical planner
is the local planner. As mentioned earlier, the goal of the local planner
is to generate kinematically feasible
and collision-free paths as well as comfortable, and safe velocity profiles
for the ego vehicle. We decompose the local
planning problem into two sub-problems; path planning and velocity
profile generation. The key ingenuity
behind developing a good path planning algorithm is reducing the search
space for optimization. There are three main categories
of path planners; sampling-based planners, variational planners
and lattice planners. Sampling-based planners
randomly sample the control inputs of
the car uniformly, in order to generate potential paths for
the car to traverse. One of the most iconic
sampling-based algorithms is the Rapidly Exploring Random Tree or RRT and its variance. These algorithms
construct the branches of the tree of paths by generating points in
randomly sampled locations and planning a path to the point, from the nearest point
in the tree. If the path is free from collisions with
any static obstacles, that path is added to the tree. This tree quickly explores
the workspace with many potential paths and when
a goal region is reached, the path that terminates in
that region is returned. Sampling-based
algorithms are often extremely fast but at the cost of potentially generating
poorer quality erratic paths when run in a short
number of cycles. Variational planners
rely on the calculus of variations to optimize
a trajectory function which maps points in time to positions in the workspace
according to some cost-functional that
takes obstacles and robot dynamics
into consideration. Variational planners are
usually trajectory planners, which means they combine
both path planning and velocity planning
into a single-step. So they do not have
to decouple the path planning and velocity
planning problems. As an example, suppose
we start off with a given discrete sampling
of a path in space. At first, it is in collision with an obstacle
shown as well. A variational planner
will iteratively move the discrete points
such that they are smooth with respect to
the robot's dynamics, as well as keeping
them collision-free. By the end, the
trajectory will be both collision-free and smoother with respect to the dynamics
of the robot. However, variational methods
are often slower, more complex and
their convergence to a feasible path is sensitive
to the initial conditions. An example of
a variational method is the chomp algorithm. Variational planners go beyond
the scope of this course, but for those interested, the chomp algorithm provides
an excellent example for further exploration
and is included in a link in the
supplemental materials. The final group of path
planners are lattice planners. Lattice planners constrain
the search space by limiting the actions that
the ego vehicle can take at any point
in the workspace. This set of actions is known as the control set of
the lattice planner. This control set, when paired with a discretization
of the workspace, implicitly defines a graph. This graph can then
be searched using a graph search algorithm
such as Dijkstra's or A*, which results in
fast computation of paths. Obstacles can set edges that
cross them to infinite cost. So the graph search allows us to perform collision
checking as well. While the lattice planner
is often quite fast, the quality of paths are sensitive to the
selected control set. A common variance on
the lattice planner is known as the conformal
lattice planner. Where a goal points are selected some distance
ahead of the car, laterally offset from one another with respect
to the direction of the road and a path is optimized
to each of these points. The path that best satisfies
some objective while also remaining collision free is then chosen as the
path to execute. In our previous video, we outlined some objectives
that we can choose to influence the path
planning process such as, arc length and bending energy. The second part of our local Plan is
the velocity profile generation. Velocity profile
generation is usually set up as a constrained
optimization problem. Generally, we would
combine many of the velocity profile objectives described in
the previous video such as the goals of minimizing jerk or minimizing deviation
from a desired reference. We also discussed some important constraints
in lesson two. One of which was the rectangle of comfortable accelerations. This is in no way
an exhaustive list of objectives or constraints. You will encounter many more in your time as
an autonomy engineer. Once the objectives and
constraints are formalized, it becomes a matter of solving
the problem efficiently. One way to do this
is to calculate convex approximations to the optimization domain
and objectives, which helps ensure that our optimizer doesn't get
stuck in local minima. Now that we've
discussed each level in our hierarchical planner, let's summarize what we've
covered in this lesson. We first went over mission
planning and how our planner navigates through a map to
get to our destination. Next, we discussed
behavior planning. Where we need to select driving behaviors based on
the situation at hand. Finally, we discussed
the local planner, which we split into path planning and velocity
profile generation. We gave a few examples
of the types of path planning algorithms and we discussed how to optimize the velocity profile for a given plan path
and reference speed. Congratulations, you've reached the end
of the first module in the fourth course of our
self-driving car specialization. Hopefully, you now have
a good idea of what the different approaches are when designing a hierarchical
motion planner. Throughout the rest
of this course, we'll introduce
the tools you need to solve each level of
the motion planning problem. But before we do that, we're going to look at how to build occupancy grid maps for effective collision
avoidance detection in the next module.
See you there.