Welcome back. In this video, we'll discuss some of
the most important constraints involved in motion planning. These constraints are often
crucial for maintaining stability and comfort
within the vehicle, as well as maintaining
the safety of all agents in
a given driving scenario. Specifically, you will
learn about how the vehicle kinematic and dynamic models constrain our motion
planning for the vehicle. You will learn about how static and dynamic obstacles impact our vehicle
motion planning. Finally, you will see how regulatory elements
impact the behaviors available to us during the motion planning process.
Let's get started. The first of the motion
planning constraints we will work with is related to
the vehicle kinematics. In motion planning for
autonomous driving, as we have discussed
in course one, the kinematics for
the ego vehicle are often simplified to what is known as the kinematic bicycle model. One reason why this model is
chosen is that bicycles have a range of acceptable
steering angle values similar to a car. For a fixed velocity V, this range of steering
angle values and delta corresponds to a range
of admissible curvatures, kappa that the vehicle
can follow. This means that when performing motion planning while
using the bicycle model, there is a maximum magnitude
of curvature that can be executed when
traversing a given path denoted by kappa max. The same holds for
autonomous cars. This means that
the curvature of any path we plan needs to be mindful
of this maximum curvature. Unfortunately, this
is what's known as a non-holonomic constraint. Intuitively, this means
that the constraint doesn't depend on
the only the state of the robot, but also on how the robot
got to its current state. Non-holonomic constraints
reduce the number of directions a robot can take at any given point
in its workspace. In general, non-holonomic
constraints make the planning problem
much more complex. Now you may be wondering
how does curvature impact the shape of a given path
in our motion plan. To give you an
intuitive understanding of what curvature is, here we have an arbitrary curve. For each point along the path, we can fit a circle to
that point based on the instantaneous rates
of change of the curve in space at
that particular point. This is analogous to the idea of the instantaneous center of rotation we use to derive the bicycle model
in the first place. Based on the shape of the plot, it appears different points
are more curvy than others. So, our intuition should
be the different points along the curve will have
different curvatures. For example, here we have a circle fit to a particular
point on the curve. As you can see, it has
quite a large radius r, and intuitive interpretation of the curvature is that it's the inverse of
the radius of the circle fit to that particular point
along the curve. Since this radius is quite large, this point has
relatively low curvature, which can be seen from the plot as the point has
a more gentle bent. If instead we look at
a second point on this curve, we can see that it has a smaller radius as it compared
to the previous point. This in turn corresponds
to a point of higher curvature and can
be seen from the plot, this point has much more aggressive bend than
the previous point. While this circle
fitting approach is useful as a geometric
interpretation, a more precise
mathematical formulation is given here for the curvature. It can be computed using the first and second
order derivatives of the x and y components of a given path defined with
respect to arc length. These arc length derivatives
are given by x prime, y prime, x double prime, and y double prime. The next constraint
will be discussing is derived from
the vehicle dynamics. These dynamic
constraints focus on keeping the car in
a stable safe state. The first of the
dynamics constraints is imposed by what is called the friction ellipse of the car. If you recall, we
discussed tire slip and the friction ellipse in our bicycle model during course one. The friction ellipse denotes
the maximum magnitude of the friction forces that can be generated between
a car tire and the road. If the applied forces of the car's engine exceed
the friction forces of the tire, the tires will slip
on the road surface. The turning functionality
of a vehicle relies on the tires
gripping the road surface. So to maintain control
and stability, the car must remain within
the friction circle. At the end of the day, this boils down to lateral and longitudinal
acceleration constraints. In general, though the acceleration constraints
are often much higher than what is physically comfortable for the passengers
inside the car. Therefore, in non-emergency
situations we often focus on the comfort rectangle
of accelerations. These values constrain, the lateral and
longitudinal accelerations to each lie within
a range of comfort, denoted on the
longitudinal acceleration along and lateral
acceleration alat axis. This is shown here, where the comfort
rectangle in blue lies well within the friction
ellipse shown in green. This results in
a tighter constraint on the feasible accelerations for a motion plan than
the friction ellipse requires. From the lateral
acceleration constraints, as well as the curvature
of the path, we have now indirectly constrained the
velocity of the car. The velocity of the car V
is a function of the lateral acceleration
of the car alat, as well as the instantaneous
turning radius of the path r. Recall that the instantaneous curvature along the path kappa is the inverse of the turning
radius of the car. If we now combine
these equations, we can see that the square
of the velocity is constrained by the
maximum lateral acceleration, alat max which is a constant, as well as the curvature
of the path kappa, which changes at
each point along the path. Because of this, it's clear
that when we are generating a velocity profile for
our autonomous vehicle, we have to take the curvature
of the path as well as the vehicles maximum
lateral acceleration into consideration. Static obstacles also provide constraints upon
our path planning process. Since static obstacles
such as a parked car or a construction pylon have fixed positions that do not
change with time, they are often modeled
by blocking out certain portions of
the ego vehicles workspace. This concept will be covered in greater detail in module
two of this course, where we discuss
the occupancy grid map. Essentially, static
obstacles constrain the locations that a car
can occupy along its path. There are numerous ways to perform static
collision checking. One way is to check the swath of the vehicle as it travels
along a given path. This swath is the union of all positions occupied by
the body of the ego vehicle, as the ego vehicle
traverses the path. If the swath overlaps
with a static obstacle, that path is infeasible. Another option for
fast collision checking is to approximate the body of
the car with a set of circles, and calculate
the circle locations as the car moves along its path. If a static obstacle lies
within any of the circles, then the path is
deemed infeasible. The union of these circles is often larger than
the body of the vehicle, ensuring a conservative
approximation. We'll be discussing this in more detail in future lessons. Dynamic obstacles on
the other hand provides some of the most challenging constraints on the motion planning problem. Different classes of
dynamic obstacles such as cars, bicycles, and pedestrians will all have different behaviors
and motion models. Constraining our motion plan
based on the behavior of these other agents will
often involve prediction, which is subject to uncertainty. However, if we take
the conservative approach and constrain ourselves to all possible behaviors
of all agents, our motion planning problem
quickly becomes over-constrained and impossible
to solve meaningfully. The degree to which we
balance between the safety of conservatism and
the aggressiveness required for forward progress, is an active area of
autonomous driving research. As a simple example, a case where dynamic
obstacles will constrain our motion will
be at an intersection. If two cars are entering the intersection
orthogonal to one another, then we have a potential
crash scenario. One way to check for whether
a collision will occur, is to track the angle formed by the ego
vehicles direction of travel and the vector from the ego vehicles location to
the other agent's location. If this angle is unchanging
as time progresses, then the ego vehicle will
collide with the other agent, and our motion planner
will need to decelerate to prevent this. Therefore, the dynamic
obstacle forces us to modify our behavior based on how the obstacle proceeds
in our driving scenario. Another example which we discussed in
the previous lesson was when a leading vehicle is present in front of
the ego vehicle. This leading vehicle
places an upper constraint on the ego vehicles
longitudinal velocity, for if we exceed
their speed while remaining in the same lane we
will eventually crash. As you can see,
dynamic obstacles will constrain both our
behavior planning process, where we make maneuver decisions, as well as our local
planning process, where it will affect
our velocity profile planning. We will be discussing this in further detail in
subsequent modules. The final constraint that we will discuss encompasses
the rules of the road as well as the
regulatory elements present in the ego
vehicles workspace. While the rules of
the road provides some constraints to
the planning problem, they also help us make informed decisions
about other agents behaviors in the environment. For example, oncoming traffic is highly
likely to stay in its lane, and not try to collide with
our ego vehicle head on. This can help reduce
the search space when trying to predict
what other agents will do. One of the most common
constraints imposed by the rules of the road are
the lane constraints. The lane constraints simply put, are there to prevent
our motion plan from leaving the ego vehicles current lane unless
it is legal to do so. Lane constraints also
inform the ego vehicle where it is safe to perform
turning maneuvers as well. There are other soft rules of the road that we need
to respect as well, such as maintaining
a time gap between the ego vehicle and
leading vehicles in our lane. The time gap is the amount
of time that it would take for
the ego vehicle to reach the leading vehicles
current position while traveling at
the ego vehicle's current speed. Maintaining a sizable
time gap helps ensure safety during
motion planning, by giving the ego vehicle ample reaction time to
events in the workspace. The regulatory elements
in the workspace will also impact
our driving behavior. The ego vehicle clearly
needs to respect red lights and stop
signs to ensure safety, but also needs to be
aware of speed limits in different areas and other
dynamic regulatory elements, such as those presented
by construction sites. In general, regulatory elements will have a large impact on which behaviors are
available to us when performing motion planning, and will be discussed in
further detail in module five. Now that we've discussed many of the autonomous driving
motion planning constraints, let's summarize what
we've learned so far. In this video, we first
reviewed our bicycle model, and looked at how the models
kinematics and dynamics, as well as the path curvature constrain our motion
planning problem. Next, we looked at
how static obstacles limit the locations
our car can safely occupy, which restricts our feasible
motion planning workspace, as well as how dynamic
obstacles impact the maneuvers available to the ego vehicle
and its velocity profile. Finally, we discussed the role of regulatory elements and how they affect
our driving behaviors. Hopefully, this lesson has given you some insight into some of the constraints of
the motion planning problem for autonomous driving. In our next video, we'll dive into some of
the optimization objectives used for solving the motion planning problem.
See you there.