Hello everyone. Welcome to the first module of our
motion planning course. In this module, you
will learn about the motion planning problem
in autonomous driving. The motion planning
problem is the task of navigating the ego vehicle to its destination in
a safe and comfortable manner while following
the rules of the road. As discussed in the first course
of this specialization, this task can be decomposed into a hierarchy of
optimization problems. Each of which will have different constraints
and objectives. By the end of this module, you should have
an understanding of the types of subproblems
that need to be solved when performing motion planning for
autonomous driving. In this video, we will discuss the autonomous
driving mission. Some of the most prevalent
on-road driving scenarios, the required behaviors
to handle each scenario, and some of the important
edge cases that highlight the challenges of motion planning for
autonomous driving. Specifically by
the end of this video, you will understand
what the goal of autonomous driving motion
planning missions is, identify some important
on-road driving scenarios, and identify some useful
driving behaviors to handle these scenarios. First, let's discuss
the autonomous driving mission. At a high level,
the autonomous driving mission is to get from
point A to point B. The autonomous
driving mission views this from a navigation
perspective, where we need to navigate from one point on a map
or current position, to another point corresponding
to our final destination. In doing so, it should
take the connection of different streets and their associated traffic
into consideration. In order to find
the most efficient path in the road network in terms
of travel time or distance. Planning for an autonomous
driving mission abstracts many of the important lower-level
variables away from the problem in order to simplify the mission
planning process. However,these lower
level variables such as roads structures, obstacles, and other agents on the road, are crucial to the autonomous driving motion planning problem. These lower level variables defined different
driving scenarios. We have discussed some of the driving scenarios
already in Course 1. So this will serve as
a refresher and will help put these scenarios into
emotion planning context. First, let's introduce
some common scenarios related to the road structure. By road structure, we mean
the lane boundaries and the regulatory elements that
are relevant to the driver. The simplest scenario when
driving is simply driving in a lane and this is often
called lane maintenance. In the nominal case, this is when the car follows the central line of
it's current lane. In this scenario,
our goal is to minimize our deviation from the center
line of the path as well as reaching our reference
speed which is often the speed limit to ensure efficient travel
to our destination. A more complex scenario
would be when the car has to perform a lane
change maneuver. Even when there are
no dynamic obstacles present in either lane, we will need to
optimize the shape of the lane change trajectory within the constraints of lateral and
longitudinal acceleration. The speed limit of the road, and the time horizon for
execution of the maneuver. Clearly, all of these parameters will affect the shape
of the trajectory, resulting in either slow
passive lane changes, or more aggressive less
comfortable lane changes. The third common scenario, is when the car needs to
perform a left or right turn. This is often required when the autonomous car has
to handle intersections. As with the lane change, the shape and
aggressiveness of the turn will vary depending
on the situation. In addition, the feasibility of actions and autonomous vehicle can take is affected by the state of
the surrounding environment. For example, the autonomous
vehicle cannot perform a left turn at a red light even if the
intersection is clear. As a final example, we have a U-turn. Which is important for
navigating certain scenarios where the car needs to change
direction efficiently. As with a lane change and both the right turn
and left turns, that you U-turn will
have parameters that affect the shape
of the trajectory. The U-turn is also
highly dependent on the state of
the surrounding environment, as it is not always legal
to perform a U-turn at an intersection depending on
your home countries laws. Now, road structure is not the only factor in
on-road scenarios. Static and dynamic obstacles will dramatically change
both the structure of the scenario as well
as the difficulty in determining the required
behavior for a scenario. In the language of
autonomous driving, dynamic obstacles are
defined as moving agents in the planning workspace
of the ego vehicle. In contrast, static obstacles
or obstacles that are not moving such as parked cars,
medians, and curves. Static obstacles
restrict which locations the autonomous car can occupy as it plans paths
to its destination. This is because the car occupies space as it travels
along its path. If this overlaps
with an obstacle, our plan will obviously
results in a collision. On the other hand,
dynamic obstacles have a larger impact on our velocity profile
and driving behavior. A common example in driving is when there
is a lead vehicle in front of our car while we are performing lane maintenance. Clearly, this vehicle will have an impact on our decision-making. Let's say this car is
going 10 kilometers per hour slower than
our reference speed. If we maintain
our current reference speed, we will eventually hit
the leading vehicle. Ideally, we would
like to maintain a time gap between ourselves
and the lead vehicle which is defined as the amount
of time until we reach the lead vehicles
current position while maintaining
our current speed. So now we have
two competing interests. We want to stay as close to our reference
speed as possible, while maintaining
a time gap between our car and the lead
vehicle for safety. Dynamic obstacles
will also affect our turn and lane
change scenarios. Depending on their
location and speed, there may only be certain time
windows of opportunity for the ego vehicle to execute
each of these maneuvers. These windows will be estimates
as they will be based on predictions of all other agents
in the environment. An example of this, is when we are waiting
for an intersection to be clear before
performing a left turn. The behaviors that are
autonomous vehicle decides to execute will depend heavily on the behavior of
oncoming traffic. If there are
nearby oncoming vehicles that are moving
quickly towards us, then the only safe behavior
would be to yield to them. However, if there is
a longer distance between the autonomous vehicles
and oncoming traffic, the autonomous vehicle
will have a window of opportunity to perform its turn. Now, not all dynamic obstacles
are cars as there are other types such as cyclists, trucks,
and pedestrians. Each of them will have
their own behaviors and have their own rules
to follow on the road. As you've seen throughout this specialization
even though we've only defined the most likely core components of
the driving task, there's clearly
a rich and diverse set of potential scenarios
that need to be handled. Despite this complexity,
the majority of behaviors for
these scenarios can be thought of as
a simple composition of high-level actions
or maneuvers. An example set of these high-level maneuvers
would be speed tracking, deceleration to stop,
staying stopped, yielding, and emergency stopping. Let's dig into what each of these high-level actions
really mean. Speed tracking is
the nominal driving behavior. We have a reference speed
or speed limit and we maintain that speed while
moving forward in our lane. Decelerating to stop is
pretty self-explanatory. If we have a stop sign ahead, we need to smoothly slow down to a stop to maintain comfort. Staying stopped is required for certain regulatory elements. If we were at a red light, then we need to remain stopped until the light turns green. Yielding is also required for
some regulatory elements. Most notably, if
we're at a yield sign and there's traffic that has
higher precedence than us, we need to slow down and wait until it is clear
for us to proceed. Finally, emergency stops occur when an issue is detected by the autonomous car
and the vehicle needs to stop immediately
and pull over. These high-level
behaviors can also be augmented by
navigational behaviors, such as performing
lane changes and turns. By bringing all of this together, we can now cover the most
basic driving scenarios. While this set of maneuvers
has good coverage, it is important to
note that this list of behaviors is in
no way exhaustive and that there are
many ways to increase behavioral complexity to handle evermore interesting scenarios. In terms of the set
of driving scenarios, we've really only begun
to scratch the surface. There are many unusual
instances that make the autonomous driving problem and extremely challenging task. For example, suppose that you have a jaywalking pedestrian, we would then have an agent
violating their rules of the road which makes
their behavior unpredictable from a motion
planning perspective. Another example, is when a motorcyclist performs
lane splitting, which may or may not be legal depending on
your home country. This behavior can be confusing
for an autonomous car, which often uses the
lane boundaries to inform the predictions of
other agents on the road. As you can see, solving the motion planning
problem is a complex task. To solve for the optimal
motion plan without any forms of selective
abstraction and simplification, would simply be intractable. To remedy this, we
instead break the task up into a hierarchy of
optimization problems. By doing this, we can tailor
the inputs and outputs of each optimization problem
to the correct level of abstraction which will allow us to perform motion
planning in real-time. In this hierarchy, higher
in the hierarchy means that the optimization problem is at a higher level of abstraction. At the top of this hierarchy
is mission planning, which focuses on solving the autonomous driving mission of navigating to our destination at the map level which
we discussed earlier. Next, we have the behavior
planning problem. Which decides which behaviors the autonomous vehicles should take depending on
its current driving scenario. Based on that maneuver, we then use the local
planner to calculate a collision-free path and velocity profile to
the required goal state. In our case, we will
decouple this process into path planning and velocity
profile generation to improve performance. Finally, our computed motion
plan will be given to the controllers to track which we've designed
in the first course. Each of these optimization
problems will have different objectives and
constraints used to solve it. Which we will be discussing
in the coming lessons. Now that we've gone through our introduction to
these motion planning problems, let's summarize what we've
discussed in this video. We've identified
the autonomous driving motion planning mission
as the problem of navigating from
the ego vehicles current position to
a required destination. We've also looked at some common on-road
driving scenarios and how the road structure as
well as the obstacles present dictate the nature
of the scenario. We then discussed some useful
driving behaviors to navigate the scenarios
we've identified. Finally, we've
described a hierarchy of motion planning
optimization problems. Which we will discuss in detail throughout the remainder
of this course. Hopefully this lesson
has given you some insight into the different
scenarios that you as an autonomy engineer
will encounter when designing a motion planner
for an autonomous vehicle. The key takeaway here is that while we've
enumerated many of the basic scenarios and behaviors required for
autonomous driving, there are still many open
questions about how to plan safe and robust behaviors across all potential
driving scenarios. In our next lesson, we'll explore some common
constraints that you will encounter when solving
the motion planning, optimization subproblems in
our hierarchy. See you then.