Because the industry is so new, we at so many different challenges, we have to find
so many different ways of solving problems that we've
never had to solve before. So, it's great and challenging
in trying to figure out those innovative solutions to this such a hard
problem that we have. There has been a phenomenal
amount of research in Academia and to how we get these cars on the road
in the first place, like how do we detect pedestrians, how do we plan
trajectories for example. The problem that
industry needs to solve is how do we deliver this experience
to thousands of customers, tens of thousands of riders, maybe someday even
millions of riders. Part of this problem is how
do we scale up our systems, how do we deliver the same algorithms on maps out
or the size of San Francisco, the Bay Area, eventually
the continental US. This is a big problem that is very exciting to tackle
and very exciting to solve. Of course, in any major city, there are lots of environments
that would present a challenge to the sensing
systems on an autonomous vehicle. For example, in San Francisco, you have areas with really
tall buildings and that really contributes to GPS multi-paths areas. For example, the financial district of San Francisco with all of
the tall buildings there. There's a really big question, the circling around
in the AV world now, and that's how do we
say strong things about the safety of systems that
are unbelievably complicated? This is one of the hardest
engineering problems as a species we've engaged in. How are we gonna say strong things? So, one school of thought says, "You have to formally
verify the code." That seems to not scale at the moment with what we know about
formal verification for the size of these systems, and of course the difficulty is that the inputs to our
self-driving vehicle are so wildly various that it seems
hard to be able to write down all possible inputs that
are coming into the system. So, then you could say, "Well, maybe we should just build
amazing simulators of it. So, maybe we should if we
could build simulators, then we could run 10,000 copies of the autonomous vehicles
simultaneously and get millions of miles overnight." Well, that's very compelling as well. But as yet, we don't have
an ability to really simulate the detail that comes
in on some of these sensors. So, it's very hard for example, to simulate a full scanning radar because of the complexity
of those interactions. So, then you come back to
the argument that says, "You just need to go and
drive and drive and drive, and get miles under the wheels, and then remember
the very interesting cases and try and replay those back
perhaps in your simulator, so perhaps you build up a playbook." I wreck, and the answer
is all of those just like I say don't
choose one sensor, I say use all of them. Why have an argument
about what the best way, I say, "Well, if they all." They all contribute in axes in understanding how do we certify
and make our vehicles safe, there's not one solution
and we shouldn't be rushed to say what it is,
it's all of these things. You need simulation, you need miles, and in some places,
you might say, "Well, actually this is
such a critical component on the vehicle where
it starts talking to actually the vehicle controller
that I do on some verification of that gateway on the command signals going to
the vehicle such that, if the autonomy system
fails or software contract to not come back
guaranteed and 50 milliseconds, then I save the trigger happens
in the vehicle slows down." So, it's all of those things
and I would say have an open-mind to all of
them and don't try and say it has to be done in
this one particular way.