In this video, you will
learn how to model the cameras projective geometry through the coordinate
system transformation. These transformations can
be used to project points from the world frame
to the image frame, building on the pinhole
camera model from the previous video. Recall that you've already used transformations
extensively in Course 2. You will then model
these transformations using matrix algebra and apply them to a 3D point to get it's 2D projection
onto the image plane. Finally, you will
learn how camera 2D images are
represented in software. Equipped with
the projection equations in image definitions, you will then be able to create algorithms for
detecting objects in 3D and localizing
the self-driving car later on in the course. First, let's define
the problem we need to solve. Let's start with a
point O world defined at a particular location in
the world coordinate frame. We want to project
this point from the world frame to
the camera image plane. Light travels from
the O world on the object through the camera aperture
to the sensor surface. You can see that our projection onto the sensor surface through the aperture results in flipped images of
the objects in the world. To avoid this confusion, we usually define
a virtual image plane in front of the camera center. Let's redraw our camera model
with this sensor plane instead of the real image
plane behind the camera lens. We will call this model the
simplified camera model, and need to develop
a model for how to project a point from the world
frame coordinates x, y and z to, image coordinates u
and v. We begin by defining the following
characteristics of the cameras that are
relevant to our problem. First, we select
a world frame in which to define the coordinates of
all objects and the camera. We also define the camera coordinate frame as
the coordinate frame attached to the center of our lens aperture known
as the optical sensor. As we learned from Course 2, we can define a translation
vector and a rotation matrix to model any transformation between a world coordinate
frame and another, and in this case,
we'll use the world coordinate frame and
the camera coordinate frame. We refer to the parameters
of the camera pose as the extrinsic parameters, as they are external to
the camera and specific to the location of the camera in the world coordinate frame. We define our image coordinate frame as the coordinate
frame attached to our virtual image plane emanating from
the optical center. The image pixel coordinate
system however, is attached to
the top left corner of the virtual image plane. So we'll need to adjust the pixel locations to
the image coordinate frame. Next, we define the focal length
is the distance between the camera and the
image coordinate frames along the z-axis of
the camera coordinate frame. Finally, our projection
problem reduces to two steps. We first need to project from the world to the camera
coordinates, then we project from the camera coordinates to
the image coordinates. We can then transform
image coordinates to pixel coordinates through
scaling and offset. We now have the geometric model to allow us to
project a point from that world frame to the image coordinate frame,
whenever we want. Let us formulate
the mathematical tools needed to perform this
projection using linear algebra. First, we begin with
the transformation from the world to the camera
coordinate frame. This is performed using the rigid body
transformation matrix T, which has R and little t in it. The next step is to transform camera coordinates to
image coordinates. To perform this transformation, we define the matrix K as
a three-by-three matrix. This matrix depends on
camera intrinsic parameters, which means it depends on components internal to the camera such as the camera geometry and the camera lens
characteristics. Since both transformations are just matrix multiplications, we can define a matrix P
as K times R and t, that transforms from
the world coordinate frame all the way to
the image coordinate frame. The coordinates of point O in
the world frame can now be projected to the image plane via the equation O sub image is
equal to P times O sub world, which is k times R
and t of O sub world. So, let's see what we're still missing to compute this equation. When we expect
the matrix dimensions, we noticed that
the matrix multiplication cannot be performed. To remedy this problem, we transform the coordinates of the point O into
homogeneous coordinates, and this is done by adding
a one at the end of the 3D coordinates as we saw in the second state
estimation course. So, now the dimensions
work and we're all ready to start computing
our projections. Now, we need to perform
the final step, transforming the image
coordinates to pixel coordinates. We do so by dividing x and y by z to get homogeneous coordinates
in the image plane. You have completed the basic
camera projection model. In practice, we usually model more complex phenomena
such as non-square pixels, camera access skew, distortion
and non unit aspect ratio. Luckily, this only changes
the camera K matrix, and the equations you
have learned can be used as is with a few
additional parameters. Now that we have formulated
the coordinates of projection of a 3D point onto
the 2D image plane, we want to define
what values go into the coordinates in
a 2D color image. We will start with
a grayscale image. We first define a width N
and a height M of an image, as the number of rows and
columns the image has. Each point in 3D projects
to a pixel on the image defined by the uv coordinates
we derived earlier. Zooming in, we can see
these pixels is a grid. In grayscale, brightness
information is written in each pixel as
an unsigned eight bit integer. Some cameras can produce unsigned 16-bit integers
for better quality images. For color images, we have a third dimension of value
three we call depth. Each channel of
this depth represents how much of a certain color
exists in the image. Many other color
representations are available, but we will be using
the RGB representation, so red green blue,
throughout this course. In conclusion, an image
is represented digitally as an M by N by
three array of pixels, with each pixel
representing the projection of a 3D point onto
the 2D image plane. So, in this video, you learned how to project 3D points in the world coordinate frame to 2D points in
the image coordinate frame. You saw that the equations that perform this projection rely on camera intrinsic
parameters as well as on the location of the camera in the world coordinate frame. As we'll see later
throughout the course, this projection model is used in every visual perception
algorithm we develop, from object detection to
derivable space estimation. Finally, you've learned how
images are represented in software as an array
representing pixel locations. You're now ready to start working directly with images
and software, as you'll do in
this week's assessments. In the next video, you will learn how to
tailor the camera model to a specific camera by computing its intrinsic and extrinsic
camera parameters through a process known
as camera calibration.