It's great to see you
again. Welcome back. So far we have learned the essential equations to extract 3D information
from a stereo pair. However, we were faced with some unknown parameters
that we have to estimate. In this lesson you will
learn how to estimate these missing parameters such as the disparity through
stereo matching. You will also learn that efficient
disparity estimation is possible due to epipolar
constraints. Let's get started. Recall from the previous video
that we identified two primary issues with the visual depth estimation
from stereo images. The first is that the camera
parameters focal length F baseline B and camera pixel centers U_naught
and V_naught, need to be estimated from
stereo camera calibration. Similar to monocular
camera calibration, stereo calibration is
a well-studied problem with lots of user-friendly
free software capable of performing in. This lesson we'll be
targeting the second problem, mainly stereo matching
to compute disparities. As a reminder, disparity is the difference in
the image location of the same 3D point as observed
by two different cameras. To compute the disparity
we need to be able to find the same point in the left and right stereo camera images. This problem is known as the stereo
correspondence problem. The most naive solution for this problem is
an exhaustive search, where we searched
the whole rate image for every pixel in
the left image. Such a solution is extremely
inefficient and will usually not run in real time to be used
on self-driving cars. It's also unlikely to succeed as many pixels will have
similar local characteristics, making it difficult to
match them correctly. Luckily for us, we can use
stereo geometry to constrain our search problem from 2D over the entire image space
to a 1D line. Let's revisit
our stereo camera setup and see why such a
simplification is valid. We've already determined, how a single point is
projected to both cameras. Now, let's move
our 3D point along the line connecting it with
the left cameras center. Its projection on the left camera image plane
does not change. However, what can
you notice about the projection on
the right camera plane, the projection moves along
the horizontal line. This is called an epipolar
line and follows directly from the fixed lateral offset and image plane alignment of the two cameras in a stereo pair. We can constrain
our correspondence search to be along the epipolar line, reducing the search
from 2D to 1D. One thing to note is that
horizontal epipolar lines only occur if the optical axes of the two cameras are parallel. In the case of
non parallel optical axis, the epipolar lines are skewed. In such cases we will
have to result to multiple view geometry rather than the stereo equations
we have developed, which is out of the scope
of this lesson. In the case of two calibrated use such as our stereo camera, a skewed epipolar line
is not a huge problem. In fact, we can work
the optical axis to be parallel through a process
known as stereo rectification. After rectification we arrive back to our horizontal
epipolar line. We will not go through how to perform rectification
as implementations are available in standard
computer vision packages such as OpenCV and MATLAB. To put it all together
we will go over our first basic stereo algorithm. For each epipolar line take a pixel on this line
in the left image, compare these left
image pixels to every pixel in the right image
on the same epipolar line. Next, select the right
image pixel that matches the left pixel the most closely which can be done by
minimizing the cost. For example, a very
simple cost here can be the squared difference
in pixel intensities. Finally, we can compute
the disparity by subtracting the right image
location from the left one. Stereo matching is a very well-studied problem
in computer vision. Many more complex costs and search regions can be defined, which attempts to improve either computational efficiency
or disparity accuracy. There are a wide range
of approaches including both local
and global methods, which differ in the main
image region considered when identifying correspondences
and computing disparities. As with most problems
in computer vision, the stereo vision algorithms are evaluated on a public benchmark. The most famous of which is the middlebury stereo benchmark. If you are interested, many of the top-performing
stereo matching algorithms have results published there
and have code available too. With this lesson, you should
now know how a stereo sensor generates depth from images
through disparity estimation. This week's assignment will give a chance to compute
your own disparity maps and to use them to create your own distance to impact
driver assist module. In the next lesson, we will
describe image filtering, an important concept we will
later use when designing convolutional neural networks
for visual perception. Thanks for watching.
See you next time.